---
Agency: '*'
Agency_Name: Government Wide
DoNotPayData:
  Evaluations:
  - Agency: CFTC
    Agency_Name: Commodity Futures Trading Commission
    Answer: The Commission’s shared services provider utilizes the DNP Business Center,
      on the Commission’s behalf, to perform online searches and screen payments against
      the DNP databases to augment data analytics capabilities. Based on the results
      of the reviews to date, the DNP initiative has not identified any improper payments.
  - Agency: CNCS
    Agency_Name: Corporation for National and Community Service
    Answer: AmeriCorps does not use the Do Not Pay Initiative in its payment integrity
      assessment as all tested payments are made outside the agency by grantees. None
      of the datasets in the Do Not Pay Initiative allow AmeriCorps to validate payments
      made external to the agency by grantees. In FY 2023, AmeriCorps did not experience
      a reduction in improper payments due to the Do Not Pay initiative.
  - Agency: CSOSA
    Agency_Name: Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of
      Columbia
    Answer: 'CSOSA and its financial system (OFF) service provider, the Department
      of Interior-Interior Business Center (IBC), use the DNP Initiative to review
      payment eligibility for purposes of identifying and preventing improper payments.
      The DNP Validation is completed each weekend.  The IBC receives an email from
      DNP notifying them that the Continuous Monitoring results are refreshed.  The
      IBC will refresh the OFF report data the first workday of the week.  IBC sends
      an email notification immediately after the data is made available.  Upon receipt
      of this email notification, CSOSA Office of Financial Management (OFM) will
      run the OFF Report and format based on the three available reports: Matched
      to Vendor, Matched Vendors Tied to PO, and Matched Vendors Tied to AP. The three
      identified reports include vendors with matched results of “Possible”, “Probable”,
      and “Conclusive”.  The information reported to the CSOSA Office of Procurement
      (Procurement) is based on those vendors with a “Conclusive” match result.  OFM
      issues an email to Procurement on a weekly basis identifying those vendors who
      appeared on the DNP Report. Prior to submitting a new OFF Vendor Request form,
      the Agency must ensure the vendor is not referenced on the DNP List.  The information
      is provided weekly by email to all credit cardholders to ensure they are not
      using any vendors identified on the DNP Report. CSOSA Accounts Payable staff
      are informed of this information as it pertains to reposting monthly bank statements
      and Budget Analysts are informed as well to assist them when approving requisitions.
      Prior to submitting a new Vendor Request form, CSOSA must ensure the vendor
      is not referenced on the DNP List.  OFM informs IBC to end date positively identified
      vendors in OFF via email.  CSOSA has neither identified a material amount nor
      realized a reduction of improper payments attributable to implementing the DNP
      Initiative capabilities. Rather, CSOSA’s DNP Initiative implementation has proven
      that CSOSA has robust and effective internal controls over ensuring that eligible
      entities receive Federal funds.


      '
  - Agency: DHS
    Agency_Name: Department of Homeland Security
    Answer: 'Across the Department, many DHS Components utilize the Do Not Pay (DNP)
      Initiative to assist in preventing and detecting improper payments. Primary
      use is focused during the "At the Time of Payment" stage in the payment lifecycle.
      Any funds disbursed by the Department of Treasury go through Payment Integration,
      in which the DNP Portal automatically matches all payment files against the
      established DNP data sets. Current DHS usage of the DNP Initiative is more heavily
      focused on detecting potential payment issues versus prevention.


      Throughout FY 2023, DHS payment activity routed through DNP exceeded 4.8 million
      payments totaling to more than $43 billion.'
  - Agency: DNFSB
    Agency_Name: Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
    Answer: The agency does not currently use the Do Not Pay initiative portal but
      does check all procurements on the SAMS database before award to confirm if
      the contractor is debarred.  The agency has an action plan to participate in
      the DNP portal in the future.
  - Agency: DOC
    Agency_Name: Department of Commerce
    Answer: Since the inception of the payment offices’ Do Not Pay portal prepayment
      eligibility reviews and reviews of the Do Not Pay portal post-payment match
      reports, the Department has not had any significant true matches to DMF and
      SAM Exclusion Records. While the Department’s use of the Do Not Pay portal since
      inception has not yet identified or led to the prevention of any significant
      improper payments, the Department supports the use of the Do Not Pay portal
      as a sound financial management practice to identify and minimize improper payments.
  - Agency: DOD
    Agency_Name: Department of Defense
    Answer: 'Within the Department of Defense (DoD), the Do Not Pay (DNP) database
      is used on a regular basis for the following payments: Military Health Benefits
      (issued by the Defense Health Agency; Commercial Pay (issued by the Defense
      Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS)); and USACE (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers)
      Commercial Pay (issued by USACE), comprising the majority of the payments issued
      by the Department. Retirement & Annuitant Pay (issued by DFAS) is currently
      in the process of enrolling into DNP with the anticipated implementation in
      fiscal year 2024. Amongst the three DoD agencies currently enrolled in DNP,
      the Department uses the online search, payment integration, and batch matching
      features of DNP on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. The majority of the flagged
      payees are based on the Death Master File and the name match results from the
      rest of the DNP databases (e.g., System for Award Management). The Department
      researches all payments that are identified to be potentially improper. Research
      has determined that the majority of these match results are false positives
      (e.g., a vendor’s tax identification number is matched to a deceased individual’s
      social security number, and the payment is erroneously flagged). The remaining
      matches are almost always deemed proper based on established business rules
      related to contracts terms and vendor performance (as payments cannot be stopped
      to vendors who performed properly under contractual agreements). The Department
      has historically adjudicated and deemed proper all potential improper payments
      identified using the DNP Portal. To date, the DNP initiative has not reduced
      the Department’s improper payments.'
  - Agency: DOE
    Agency_Name: Department of Energy
    Answer: 'DOE uses the Do Not Pay portal within the Treasury Working System to
      review payment eligibility for purposes of identifying and preventing improper
      payments and fraud.

      Where the system identifies exclusion matches for supplier records of POs with
      funding exhausted, DOE would close such records. A note is then added in the
      DBA name field that the vendor has an active exclusion. A request to reopen
      the supplier would alert the supplier team to perform mandatory validation checks
      before reopening. This ensures no new awards are granted to suppliers with active
      exclusions. DOE also send a daily file to DNP for Batch Matching to ensure that
      there are no missed data source matches in the Continuous Monitoring process
      that would result from any timing issues.

      DOE utilizes DNP as a proactive solution for reducing/preventing improper payments
      as opposed to being reactive. During FY 2022, there were 5 supplier records
      closed due to active SAM Exclusion matches in DNP. Closing of supplier records
      prevents procurement offices from entering into any new contracts with the vendors
      which could result in improper payments. Since DNP is a proactive solution to
      preventing improper payments, quantitative amount of the dollar or number of
      improper payments prevented by the use of DNP cannot be made; otherwise, the
      cost of tracking would outweigh the benefit.

      For FY 2022, there were 78,000 payments screened through Do Not Pay totaling
      $8.8 billion.'
  - Agency: DOI
    Agency_Name: Department of the Interior
    Answer: DOI continues to regularly engage with the Do Not Pay Business Center,
      Bureau of the Fiscal Service, at Treasury to determine if DOI is using Do Not
      Pay Initiative to the fullest extent. The meetings with Treasury continue to
      be very informative. The Department continues to explore the use of DNP to determine
      if there are any improper payments in advance of payments being issued.
  - Agency: DOJ
    Agency_Name: Department of Justice
    Answer: The Department of Justice has access to all DNP data sources that are
      helpful in identifying potential improper payments and awards.  The Department’s
      use of the sources in FY 2023 identified three improper payments totaling $190,000.  All
      three payments were beneficiary payments under the Civil Division’s programs.  In
      each case, we are working with very sick individuals and sometimes between the
      time the decision is made to make a payment and the time the payment is received,
      the person passes. In each case, we work closely with the beneficiary’s family
      and a legal team to recoup the funds. The Department has been working with DNP
      Analytics team to analyze potential matches identified.  We hope that this deeper
      analysis will minimize the number of false positives.
  - Agency: DOL
    Agency_Name: Department of Labor
    Answer: 'DOL programs conduct pre-payment reviews against databases on the DNP
      List, as appropriate. Programs with a business need use the DNP Working Solution
      when determined cost-effective to review against appropriate databases. The
      dollar effect of these reviews in overall IP prevention is impossible to quantify
      . In addition, the FECA program conducts data analytics and cross-referencing
      with the DNP Business Center to mitigate the risk of inappropriate inter-Agency
      dual benefits.


      DOL programs with matches in the DNP Portal are directly responsible for reviewing
      and adjudicating. They are not required to report IP prevented to DNP nor DOL-OCFO.
      Further, DNP identified a technical performance issue that occurred in November
      2022, which affected the loading of the payment matches in Payment Integration.
      As a result of this error, there were a number of matched payments that should
      have been included in the November 2022 reporting, but did not appear.  Responses
      to DataCall questions regarding IP prevented by the DNP Portal (e.g., DPA6&7)
      represent managerial judgement of the most likely of OMB response options.'
  - Agency: DOT
    Agency_Name: Department of Transportation
    Answer: 'An important part of the Department’s program integrity efforts is integrating
      Treasury Department’s Do Not Pay (DNP) Business Center into our existing processes.
      DOT utilizes the DNP Business Center to perform online searches, screen payments
      against the DNP databases, and augment DOT’s Payment Integrity Center capabilities.


      DNP specifically helps the Department prevent improper payments by matching
      all of our payments against the death data sources on a daily basis.  For FY
      2023, DNP identified 5 DOT payments that matched against the death data sources
      amounting to approximately $6,000.  Even though all FY 2023 matches were proper
      payments, the information enabled DOT staff to take proactive measures and reduce
      repeat occurrences.


      Overall, the Department has neither identified a material amount nor realized
      a material reduction of improper payments attributable to the implementing the
      DNP capabilities. Our DNP implementation has proven, however, that DOT has robust
      and effective internal controls over ensuring that eligible entities receive
      Federal funds.'
  - Agency: EAC
    Agency_Name: Election Assistance Commission
    Answer: 'Participating in the Do Not Pay (DNP)  initiative is included in the
      EAC''s agreement with the Bureau of Fiscal Service''s Administrative Resource
      Center''s (ARC). BFS ARC does continuous monitoring of the suppliers in the
      Oracle financial system. They submit a report of supplier numbers and tax IDs
      into the Federal Reserve DNP folder once a week. That report is processed, and
      the reports are available the following morning. If there are any suppliers
      of concern, BFS immediately deactivates them with the end date, so they cannot
      be used to pay future payments.

      '
  - Agency: ED
    Agency_Name: Department of Education
    Answer: The Department has found Do Not Pay has a useful application in support
      of our effort to prevent improper payments. The Department has found Electronic
      Verification of Vital Events Fact of Death (EVVE FOD) to be one of the more
      beneficial sources of death data.
  - Agency: EEOC
    Agency_Name: Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
    Answer: The EEOC does not presently use the Do Not Pay Initiative (DNP) as the
      EEOC is cross-serviced by the Department of Interior, Interior Business Center
      (DOI/IBC) for accounting system support and accounts payable processing.  As
      a result, the implementation of the DNP initiative is a joint responsibility
      between the EEOC and IBC. Prior to making a new contract award, the EEOC utilizes
      the System for Award Management (SAM) to see if the vendor is excluded from
      receiving contracts. If SAM does not list any exclusions, the EEOC submits a
      new vendor request to IBC. The IBC Vendor Maintenance Team verifies EEOC’s entire
      new employee and Non-Federal Vendor requests against the Department of Treasury’s
      DNP database and if the IBC Vendor Maintenance Team finds a positive match,
      they notify the EEOC. The EEOC reviews the match, determines if the payment
      is proper, and reports the result.
  - Agency: EPA
    Agency_Name: Environmental Protection Agency
    Answer: "The PIIA requires federal agencies to implement the Do Not Pay initiative,\
      \ a government-wide solution designed to prevent payment errors and detect waste,\
      \ fraud, and abuse in programs administered by the federal government. The EPA’s\
      \ payments are screened by the Department of the Treasury’s DNP working system\
      \ to detect improper payments. The Treasury analyzes each agency’s payments\
      \ and provides a monthly report itemizing any payments that were made to potentially\
      \ ineligible recipients. These potential matches are identified when the name\
      \ of an agency’s payee matches the name of an individual or entity listed in\
      \ federal data sources contained in the Treasury’s DNP working system. \n\n\
      In FY 2023, the Treasury screened the EPA payments through the following DNP\
      \ data sources on a post- payment basis: the Social Security Administration’s\
      \ Death Master File and the General Services Administration’s System for Award\
      \ Management Exclusion List. During FY 2023 a total of 226,737 EPA payments\
      \ worth $3.76 billion of the EPA payments were screened, and no improper payments\
      \ were identified. \n\nThe EPA’s Payment Integrity Program is supported by two\
      \ other US Treasury screening tools, the Automated Standard Application for\
      \ Payments and the Offset Program, to support its Payment Integrity work.  \
      \ Under this process 55,363 EPA payments totaling $ 5.5 billion were made using\
      \ ASAP, including having ASAP’s grantee listing is monitored by the Treasury.\
      \  \n\nIn addition, the agency payments are routinely monitored by the Treasury\
      \ Offset Program, which offsets federal payments to recipients with delinquent\
      \ federal nontax debt. These different tools provide a valuable external check\
      \ of the agency’s payment integrity."
  - Agency: EXIM
    Agency_Name: Export-Import Bank of the United States
    Answer: EXIM complies with all aspects of the Do Not Pay Initiative through its
      Character, Reputational, and Transaction Integrity (CRTI) process. All transactions
      in the three authorization-based payment programs (Short, Medium, and Long-Term)
      undergo CRTI checks. As a part of CRTI, names of participants are searched within
      a database clearing house of over 20 directories to determine compliance with
      a variety of “Know your Customer” (KYC) and EXIM due-diligence requirements.
      Also, EXIM does not disburse funds directly to payees but through the U.S. Department
      of Treasury Secured Payment System, where any funds disbursed by the Department
      of Treasury go through payment integration in which the Do Not Pay portal automatically
      matches all the files against the Death Master file and the System for Award
      Management (SAM) exclusion records.
  - Agency: FCA
    Agency_Name: Farm Credit Administration
    Answer: For pre-award activity, we use the System for Award Management to validate
      valid vendors eligible to do business with the Federal government. While the
      Farm Credit Administration does not use Do Not Pay directly, our shared service
      provider uses the Do Not Pay Initiative to ensure only valid vendors are enabled
      for payment. The use of Do Not Pay by our service provider reduces potential
      improper payments up front in the pre-award and pre-payment phases.
  - Agency: FCC
    Agency_Name: Federal Communications Commission
    Answer: 'We use DNP for onboarding new programs and new vendors. This process
      has attributed to the reduction in improper payments. We do not use DNP to determine
      awards. We have used DNP to hold off on making an award if the vendor was not
      active in SAM (this is one of the Flags on the DNP portal that would have a
      vendor appear on the report we receive when we bump our vendors list up against
      the DNP

      portal).'
  - Agency: FEC
    Agency_Name: Federal Election Commission
    Answer: The FEC shared service provider uses Do Not Pay.  We have not been informed
      of any instances when the Do Not Pay tool has identified a potential improper
      payment.
  - Agency: FLRA
    Agency_Name: Federal Labor Relations Authority
    Answer: The Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative serves as a useful tool in mitigating
      the possibility of Improper Awards and Payments.  If a vendor is on the DNP
      list, this information is communicated to our Contracting Officer thereby ensuring
      no contract awards occur with vendors on the DNP list thereby mitigating the
      possibility of potentially problematic contract awards/payments occurring.
  - Agency: FMC
    Agency_Name: Federal Maritime Commission
    Answer: The Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) through its shared service provider,
      U.S. Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Service, utilizes the Do Not Pay Initiative
      information when making obligations and expenditures. The FMC has an extremely
      low improper payment rate and cannot opine on whether that information, in of
      itself, has reduced improper payments.
  - Agency: GCRC
    Agency_Name: Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
    Answer: As part of our service provider's standard procedures, the Bureau of Fiscal
      Service ARC regularly checks suppliers through the Do Not Pay (DNP) portal.
      This includes a weekly run that identifies active suppliers who should not be
      paid by the government. If any supplier is found on that list, they are promptly
      deactivated and cannot be used.
  - Agency: GSA
    Agency_Name: General Services Administration
    Answer: Treasury screens each of GSA's summary schedules against the Do Not Pay
      system daily. Very few matches are returned. Most matches are for salary payments
      and are false positives (there is a valid reason for the payment). The Financial
      Management Systems Operations and Maintenance Division sends the Pegasys vendor
      table to the Do Not Pay portal on the 10th of each month. The matches are researched
      in Pegasys to verify that the vendor has been marked "Debarred" or "Inactive".
      The Debarment flag is interfaced from SAM. The Inactive flag is manually adjusted
      in Pegasys if the Debarment has not yet interfaced into Pegasys or if a vendor
      on the Death Master List is identified.
  - Agency: HHS
    Agency_Name: Department of Health and Human Services
    Answer: "HHS uses the Do Not Pay Initiative to review payment eligibility for\
      \ purposes of identifying and preventing improper payments. HHS utilizes the\
      \ Treasury Working System to screen payments against the Do Not Pay death record\
      \ databases. On a quarterly basis, HHS reviews Do Not Pay portal payment matches\
      \ for items in need of adjudication. Flagged payments or payments listed as\
      \ possible matches are reviewed with the respective HHS division making the\
      \ payment before a determination is reported to Treasury on the portal. \n\n\
      In FY 2023, the Department screened 1.1 million payments worth $723.9 billion\
      \ against the Do Not Pay portal's death record databases. While 12 potential\
      \ improper payments were initially identified, further investigation by HHS\
      \ confirmed zero improper payments in FY 2023.  Additionally, CMS conducted\
      \ checks on 1.1 billion payments, totaling $415.8 billion in FY 2023, against\
      \ PIIA-listed databases outside of the DNP portal. Through these checks, CMS\
      \ prevented 564,185 payments, resulting in savings of $2.2 billion.\n\nHHS’s\
      \ Do Not Pay Initiative implementation has proven that HHS has robust and effective\
      \ internal controls over ensuring that eligible entities receive Federal funds."
  - Agency: HUD
    Agency_Name: Department of Housing and Urban Development
    Answer: 'The Do Not Pay Initiative (DNP) was established by the Improper Payments
      Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012 (IPERIA) to support federal
      agencies in their efforts to detect and prevent improper payments.  Under updated
      improper payment guidance in PIIA, DNP continues helps to protect the integrity
      of the federal government’s payment processes by assisting agencies in mitigating
      and eliminating improper payments in a cost-effective manner while safeguarding
      the privacy of individuals.  DNP enables agencies to use a secure online interface
      to check various data sources to verify eligibility of a vendor, grantee, loan
      recipient, or beneficiary to receive federal payments.  DNP enables agencies
      to screen payment recipients on a pre-payment basis against databases, and also
      provides post-payment screening against these databases to help ensure that
      any payments to potentially ineligible parties are identified for adjudication
      and possible recovery.


      During FY 2022, HUD screened 1,367,522 payments against databases, representing  $80,221,297,228.
      The effectiveness of the DNP post payment review of data, coupled with program
      specific pre-payment monitoring and screening of payments to prevent payments
      to ineligible parties, has resulted in an observed ineligible party payment
      rate of 0%.  Management will continue to emphasize review and monitoring of
      established internal controls to prevent any future improper payments.  HUD
      continues to have discussions with Treasury to determine the most beneficial
      way to monitor its programs through the Do Not Pay Initiative.'
  - Agency: IMLS
    Agency_Name: Institute of Museum and Library Services
    Answer: 'The agency reviews 100% of payments for accuracy and completeness. The
      agency''s Shared Service Provide is responsible for use of the Do Not Pay Initiative.
      The agency reviews 100% of payments for accuracy and completeness.. The  Do
      Not Pay Initiative has further strengthened controls over disbursements.

      '
  - Agency: MCC
    Agency_Name: Millennium Challenge Corporation
    Answer: 'On a weekly basis, IBC uploads MCC Payment batches into the DO NOT PAY
      Portal. Treasury returns the payment batches to IBC who uploads the files in
      Oracle and advises MCC that the files are available. MCC downloads the Payment
      Activity Report monthly from the DO NOT PAY Portal and reviews the list

      for items in need of adjudication. Flagged payments or payments listed as possible
      matches are reviewed with the respective MCC division making the payment before
      a determination is reported to Treasury on the portal. Although payments can
      be flagged, the system often either produces false positive or inaccurate probable
      matches. Therefore, MCC vendors are vetted in other databases like SAM which
      is more accurate prior to award and payments.  MCC did not identify any improper
      payments as a result of the Do Not Pay Initiative.'
  - Agency: MSPB
    Agency_Name: Merit Systems Protection Board
    Answer: MSPB does not use the Do Not Pay Initiative. MSPB's primary payments are
      salaries to employees and shared government services.  Receipt of goods/services
      are verified for compliance, prior to the certification of payment issuance.
  - Agency: NARA
    Agency_Name: National Archives and Records Administration
    Answer: "NARA's financial shared service provider, the Department of Treasury,\
      \ Bureau of Fiscal Service, runs weekly checks on disbursed payments against\
      \ the DNP/Treasury Working System.  Incorrect DNP information is rarely identified\
      \ and therefore, corrections are rare.  However when they are discovered, immediate\
      \ corrective action is taken. \n\nWe are not aware of any NARA payments that\
      \ were stopped by DNP in FY 2023."
  - Agency: NASA
    Agency_Name: National Aeronautics and Space Administration
    Answer: NASA enrolled in the Department of the Treasury’s DNP portal process on
      September 27,2014. Its Payment Automation file is vetted against the Security
      Administration (SSA) Death Master File. The cumulative results of these monthly
      reviews reported are for the period of October 2022- August 2023. During this
      time period, there were 122252 payments made by Treasury on behalf of NASA with
      a dollar value of $16,175,480,530.44. The review by NASA resulted in no matching
      improper payments for FY23.
  - Agency: NEA
    Agency_Name: National Endowment for the Arts
    Answer: 'Our financial system provider, ESC, verifies an entity against both SAM
      and the Internal Revenue Service’s taxpayer identification number (TIN) prior
      to establishing them as a vendor in the financial accounting systems. ESC also
      integrates SAM.gov with the financial system to manage supplier databases in
      order to improve the accuracy of data. ESC uses the Do Not Pay (DNP) business
      center at the Treasury Department to improve the quality and integrity of system
      financial information through the use of the DNP Analytics service where vendor
      profiles are matched against the Death Master File. Vendor maintenance processes
      are also performed by ESC to deactivate profiles without activity for eighteen
      months.


      We believe our use of Do Not Pay via ESC has resulted in reduced improper payments.'
  - Agency: NEH
    Agency_Name: National Endowment for the Humanities
    Answer: DNP is used by the grants management department as part of the grant award
      cycle and a preventative control. The accounting department submits payment
      and supplier information to DNP.
  - Agency: NLRB
    Agency_Name: National Labor Relations Board
    Answer: NLRB uses the do not pay initiative that provides services and support
      activities related to the prevention and detection of improper payments.  NLRB's
      improper payments are on the low.
  - Agency: NRC
    Agency_Name: Nuclear Regulatory Commission
    Answer: NRC’s Acquisitions Management Division does not use Do Not Pay (DNP) but
      does use other mechanisms to determine which vendors should be considered in
      doing business with as required by the FAR. Once a contract is signed, NRC is
      obligated to pay a valid contract invoice within 30 days of receipt per the
      Prompt Payment Act.  The NRC’s payment vendor file is used within DNP quarterly.  NRC
      has not found any improper payments because of using DNP. NRC consistently makes
      proper payments of approximately 99% annually.
  - Agency: NSF
    Agency_Name: National Science Foundation
    Answer: 'All NSF payments are compliant with Treasury’s Payment Application Modernization
      format and are screened against the following data sources: Social Security
      Death Master File (DMF) [public information] and the GSA System for Award Management
      (SAM) Exclusion Records [restricted information]. Any subsequent matches are
      viewable in Treasury’s DNP online portal for adjudication

      purposes.  There were 0 positive DNP matches for payments that NSF issued in
      FY 2023.'
  - Agency: OGE
    Agency_Name: Office of Government Ethics
    Answer: OGE uses the Do Not Pay Initiative to review payment eligibility for purposes
      of identifying and preventing improper payments as well as a check and balance
      to ensure no improper payments are being made.  OGE, utilizes its Shared Service
      Financial Management Services provider, Bureau of Fiscal Services to review
      all payments against payment eligibility and Do Not Pay databases.  OGE receives
      monthly reports on improper payments for review and action if necessary.  In
      FY2023 OGE has not been notified of an improper payment identified for any amount.
      As such a reduction of improper payments cannot be realized under this process.  OGE's
      use of DNP is very useful along with other internal controls in ensuring that
      only eligible entities receive federal funds.
  - Agency: OPM
    Agency_Name: Office of Personnel Management
    Answer: 'OPM''s FEHB, within Healthcare and Insurance, uses the Do Not Pay portal
      once a year, in February/March, to check new carrier applicants in the FEHB
      Program.  There was one new vendor in FY 2023 and OPM did not identify any incorrect
      information.


      OPM''s Retirement Services uses the Do Not Pay Initiative monthly in conjunction
      with other methods to determine if payments are proper and helps to reduce improper
      payments. OPM''s RS Fraud Analysts access the Do Not Pay (DNP) portal monthly,
      pulling nationally reported deaths of annuitants through the

      following death data sources: Department of State (DOS); Department of Defense
      (DOD); American Infosource (AIS) – Probate, American Infosource (AIS) -Obituary;
      the Electronic Verification of Vital Events-Fact of Death (EVVE-FOD); Payments,
      Claims, and Enhanced Reconciliations (PACER); and the public Death Master File
      (DMF). There were over 25,000 hits/names/payments reviewed in FY 2023. All

      hits/names/payments were verified by Fraud Analysts through open and closed
      source investigative tools. In FY 2023, over 600 names were confirmed deceased
      and dropped for death, preventing over $1,000,000 in improper annuity payments
      from being issued. In addition, it is used to assist in providing verification
      of death to initiate reclamation of overpayments with OCFO and/or further criminal
      or civil prosecution by OIG on the estate.'
  - Agency: OSC
    Agency_Name: Office of Special Counsel
    Answer: OSC has no confirmed fraud, and has not used the Do Not Pay initiative
      to reduce improper payments or awards, as a result.  OSC also utilizes shared
      service providers for payroll, financial system operations, and for contracting,
      which further minimizes any possible improper payment or award that could potentially
      occur.
  - Agency: PBGC
    Agency_Name: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
    Answer: 'PBGC has implemented the Do Not Pay (DNP) system. DNP is used after payments
      have been made to vendors. If a vendor shows up on the DNP list, the Financial
      Operations Department (FOD) consults with the Procurement Department (PD) to
      see if a future payment should be withheld in accordance with FAR.

      For every contract award, PD also executes a Contractor Responsibility Assessment
      (CRA) report using the automated FedDataCheck tool.'
  - Agency: PC
    Agency_Name: Peace Corps
    Answer: The Do Not Pay Initiative has not reduced the Improper Payments. However
      Peace Corps has experienced difficulty with payments to a volunteer whose name
      matched that of an individual on the Do Not Pay list.
  - Agency: PCLOB
    Agency_Name: Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
    Answer: PCLOB's financial service provider, ARC, runs the DNP process each week.
      According to our service provider, this has historically helped them reduce
      improper payments for their customers.
  - Agency: RRB
    Agency_Name: Railroad Retirement Board
    Answer: We have determined that our current business processes, data sources,
      and the Do Not Pay Initiative are effective in detecting and preventing benefit
      overpayments. As a benefit paying agency, the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB)
      receives pre-payment information regarding benefit entitlement at other agencies
      and wage information. We have ongoing data sources established and in use for
      this information, which includes benefit entitlement and wages from the Social
      Security Administration, employers, and our application process. We also receive
      post-payment wage information through established sources such as wage matching
      programs with the fifty states. In addition, we receive death data directly
      from the Social Security Administration and the Center of Medicare and Medicaid
      Services, which provides us with detailed death information.
  - Agency: SBA
    Agency_Name: Small Business Administration
    Answer: SBA submitted all programmatic disbursements through the DNP portal.  For
      disbursements that have not been disbursements yet, SBA would require the recipients
      to resolve the DNP finding prior to becoming eligible for SBA funding.  For
      disbursements that have already been sent to the recipient, SBA would place
      a hold code on the loan or grant and/or deny future loan or grant requests or
      loan relief requests until the recipient was able to successfully resolve the
      DNP finding.
  - Agency: SEC
    Agency_Name: Securities and Exchange Commission
    Answer: 'The SEC utilizes the Do Not Pay Initiative by evaluating possible improper
      payments flagged by the DNP Portal to ascertain whether flagged payments are
      actual improper payments. Historically, the agency has had very few improper
      payments and this has continued during FY2023. After payment has been sent,

      SEC monitors the system once a week to be proactive if DNP marks a payment as
      possibly improper in order to research and refund the payment, if needed.'
  - Agency: SSA
    Agency_Name: Social Security Administration
    Answer: 'We do not currently use the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) Do
      Not Pay (DNP) system because we have access to the same data as DNP  applicable
      to our programs such as the General Services Administration’s System for Award
      Management (SAM), our public version of the Death Master File (DMF), state death
      data through the Electronic Death Registration process and Prisoner Update Processing
      System (PUPS).


      SAM:  We comply with regulations to use the List of Excluded Individuals/Entities
      (LEIE), which accomplishes the same purpose as the Exclusions query via SAM.gov.  From
      SAM.gov, we can verify through Entity Registrations if any person or organization
      is registered to do business with the Federal Government and determine a person
      or organization’s eligibility to do business with the Federal Government through
      a check of the Exclusions query.  We are precluded from soliciting offers from,
      awarding contracts to renew, placing or renewing orders with, or otherwise extending
      the duration of a current contract with any entity who has been determined ineligible
      from doing business with the Federal Government unless the head of the agency
      (or designee) determines there is a compelling reason to do so.


      As prescribed in our policy, the State disability determination services (DDS)
      offices are required to check the LEIE at least annually.  LEIE includes the
      names of providers excluded from Federally funded health care programs.  The
      DDS offices also verify medical licenses, credentials, and certifications with
      State medical boards.


      DMF:  The DMF is a publicly available extract of death information created from
      our internal records (i.e., the Numident).  These records contain information,
      such as name, Social Security number (SSN), date of birth, and date of death
      of deceased SSN holders.  We update death information on the Numident daily
      based on information from acceptable reporters (e.g., States, funeral homes,
      and family members).  We distribute reported death information to our related
      records using a complex systems interface.  Because our internal death data
      are more complete than the extracts, we do not use DNP for purposes of verifying
      death.


      State Death Data:  We receive state death data directly from the states through
      the Electronic Death Registration process.  Under Section 205(r) of the Social
      Security Act, we may only provide State death data, on a reimbursable basis,
      to Federal or State agencies for specific purposes.  Per Section 801 of the
      Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, we will be providing Treasury’s DNP with
      State death data beginning December 27, 2023 for a three-year period.


      Prisoner Information:  To comply with the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, we
      collaborated with Treasury’s Bureau of Fiscal Service to provide current prisoner
      information.  Because our PUPS is more complete than the data available via
      DNP, we use our internal data to verify incarceration.'
  - Agency: STATE
    Agency_Name: Department of State
    Answer: "The Department of State reviewed potential improper payments provided\
      \ by the Department of the Treasury as a result of submitting disbursed payments\
      \ through the Do Not Pay (DNP) portal. In 2023, the Treasury reviewed and disbursed\
      \ 1,473,286 payments totaling $16.5 billion paid by the Department through the\
      \ DNP portal. Potential matches were provided on a daily basis, comparing payments\
      \ to the public Death Master File (DMF) of the Social Security Administration\
      \ and the General Services Administration’s Excluded Parties List System (EPLS).\
      \ Through daily access via the Treasury DNP portal, the Department reviewed\
      \ 170,708 unmatchable payments, totaling $1.2 billion, and adjudicated 151 potential\
      \ erroneous payment matches totaling $639 thousand as part of the post payment\
      \ review process. \n\nThe Department continued to utilize the DNP portal’s DMF\
      \ on a pre-payment basis for all annuitant payments. At least twice each month\
      \ the Department’s annuitant database is screened against the DMF to identify\
      \ deceased annuitants. All matches are researched and if confirmed, payment\
      \ to the annuitant is stopped prior to processing the monthly annuity payment\
      \ run. In 2023, there were 204,870 annuitant payments totaling $1.1 billion\
      \ were reviewed against the DMF and 103 payments totaling $661 thousand were\
      \ stopped due to this initiative. This process is successful in identifying\
      \ deceased annuitants and ensuring improper payments are not made. In addition,\
      \ all annuity manual payments processed through Treasury’s Secure Payment System\
      \ are reviewed through the DMF online search prior to making payment. \n\nFor\
      \ non-Treasury Disbursing Office oversees payments, payee information is checked\
      \ against Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control’s (OFAC) list of Specially\
      \ Designated Nationals (SDN). During 2023, there were 2,624,564 payments totaling\
      \ $9.9 billion of potential payment matches reviewed resulting in no stopped\
      \ payments.\n\nIn addition, Department grants processed through the Health and\
      \ Human Service (HHS) Payment Management System (PMS) are included in a DNP\
      \ review. HHS incorporated a review of the DNP portal into their payment process\
      \ to identify individuals or entities with delinquent Federal non-tax debt,\
      \ a recipient that is listed as deceased on the DMF, and recipients excluded\
      \ from doing business with the government. In 2023, the Department was notified\
      \ of no recipient that appeared ineligible due to results of the DNP process.\
      \ In addition, in 2023, four recipient payments were stopped as a result of\
      \ the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). The TOP is a centralized offset program,\
      \ administered by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service’s Debt Management Services,\
      \ to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal agencies and states (including\
      \ past-due child support), in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(d) (collection\
      \ of debts owed to Federal agencies), 31 U.S.C. 3720A (reduction of tax refund\
      \ by amount of the debts), and other applicable laws."
  - Agency: STB
    Agency_Name: Surface Transportation Board
    Answer: "Please refer to the information provided in the Executive Summary under\
      \ the Improper Payments Strategy.\n\nImproper Payments Strategy  \n\nThe Payment\
      \ Integrity Information Act requires agencies to conduct payment recapture audits\
      \ with respect to each program and activity of the agency with expenditures\
      \ of $1 million or more annually, if conducting such audits would be cost-effective.\
      \  The STB addresses proper management of payments by: \n\n*preventing payment\
      \ errors through documented processes and internal controls;\n*detecting overpayment\
      \ and underpayments through control testing."
  - Agency: TREASURY
    Agency_Name: Department of the Treasury
    Answer: "The use of Do Not Pay is considered on Treasury's PIIA risk assessments.\
      \ In FY 23, all applicable fund groups who completed risk assessments used the\
      \ Do Not Pay portal prior to payment disbursement.\n\nAdditionally, the Vendor\
      \ Supply Group does continuous monitoring of all suppliers using the Do Not\
      \ Pay (DNP) portal. On a weekly basis all active suppliers are submitted and\
      \ processed in a nightly run that returns a list of suppliers which matched\
      \ against the database with the results that could indicate they should not\
      \ be paid by the government. Most results seen are either deceased individuals\
      \ or suppliers that have not reviewed and approved their records in the SAM\
      \ database within the past year and therefore their SAM registration is not\
      \ current. All suppliers found on this list are immediately end dated so they\
      \ cannot be used. On the rare occasion the system indicated the vendor should\
      \ not be paid for other reasons the Customer Care accountant is notified to\
      \ follow up with the Customer. \nIn addition, on a regular daily basis the DNP\
      \ portal is used to submit Disaster Recovery Applicants.\n"
  - Agency: TVA
    Agency_Name: Tennessee Valley Authority
    Answer: The Tennessee Valley Authority currently does not utilize the Do Not Pay
      Initiative as part of its processes.
  - Agency: USAGM
    Agency_Name: United States Agency for Global Media
    Answer: USAGM utilizes Treasury's Payment Automation Manager (PAM) to vet payment
      data against the Social Security Administration (SSA) Death Master File (DMF),
      American InfoSource (AIS) Obituary and Probate, Department of Defense, and Department
      of State data sources during Payment Integration (or at the time of payment).  All
      funds disbursed by the Department of Treasury go through Payment Integration,
      in which the DNP portal automatically matches all PAM files against available
      death sources.  Additionally, USAGM loads the SAM file into the Momentum accounting
      system daily.  Any issues are identified when the file is loaded and resolved
      prior to payments processed.
  - Agency: USAID
    Agency_Name: Agency for International Development
    Answer: "The DNP Initiative has been a great tool for the agency in identifying\
      \ and reducing Improper Payments. By using several data sources to screen large\
      \ amounts of transactions/payments, it continues to help the agency reduce financial\
      \ burden and increase the efficiency to better serve our shareholders.\n\nServices\
      \ used in the DNP Initiative including: \nAmerican InfoSource Death Data – Obituary\
      \ (AIS-OBIT)\nDept of Defense Death Data (DOD)\nSAM Entity Registration Records\
      \ (SAMENT)\nAmerican InfoSource Death Data – Probate (AIS-PROB)\nDept of State\
      \ Death Data (DOS)\nNAPHSIS Electronic Verification of Vital Events Fact of\
      \ Death (EVVE FOD)\nOffice of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)\nSAM Exclusion Records\
      \ – Restricted (SAM-EXCL-RES)\nSSA Death Master File (DMF)\n\nSince FY 2015,\
      \ USAID has reviewed 454,931 payments that totaled $88.6 billion, using the\
      \ DNP Initiative to conclude no confirmed improper payments. From October 1,\
      \ 2018, through July 31, 2023, the DNP Initiative reviewed 256,478 payments\
      \ by USAID that totaled $68.4 billion and found no confirmed improper payments."
  - Agency: USDA
    Agency_Name: Department of Agriculture
    Answer: "USDA continues to utilize Do Not Pay (DNP) in its efforts to mitigate\
      \ improper payments. USDA programs currently using DNP utilize the Working System\
      \ (the “Portal”) throughout the payment life cycle. All programs utilize the\
      \ Portal during the pre-award step, most utilize pre-award and pre-payment,\
      \ while a few programs utilize pre-award, pre-payment, and post-payment. \n\n\
      The end of the various COVID-19 related assistance programs, which broadened\
      \ USDA programs in a variety of ways, including the amount of funding available\
      \ and eligibility requirements, resulted in USDA DNP search activities returning\
      \ to pre-pandemic levels. During FY 2023, the number of DNP search activities\
      \ decreased by nearly 95% (118,064 to 5,068) however the total dollar amount\
      \ matched from those search activities only decreased by approximately 16% ($13.95M\
      \ to $11.68M). \n\nUSDA has increased its active users by approximately 5% from\
      \ 1,780 in FY 2022 to 1,869 in FY 2023. These users span five USDA agencies\
      \ and multiple program areas. USDA consistently increases the number of active\
      \ users by at least 3% each fiscal year. \n\nUSDA is currently in various stages\
      \ of the enrollment and onboarding process with four new program areas. With\
      \ the addition of these four programs, USDA is anticipating increasing user\
      \ enrollment by 100% to 3400 users. The Department aims to have enrollment for\
      \ these programs completed during FY 2024.\n"
  - Agency: USITC
    Agency_Name: US International Trade Commission
    Answer: To my knowledge our use of the Do Not Pay initiative has not reduced improper
      payments. The Commission's improper payments have been less than one-tenth of
      one percent the past several years.
  - Agency: VA
    Agency_Name: Department of Veterans Affairs
    Answer: "VA fulfills the requirements of the Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative and reviews\
      \ payments against Payment Integrity Information Act (PIIA) required databases.\
      \ VA utilizes the Treasury Working Systems (TWS) payment integration, continuous\
      \ monitoring, and batch matching functionalities. VA also utlizes the two reports\
      \ available for download in the TWS for required reporting. The Payment Activity\
      \ Report (PAR) provides VA a summary of the PAM payments, matches, and adjudication\
      \ statuses. The Adjudication Summary report provides VA the summary adjudication\
      \ status results each month. \n\nVA adjudicates matches within the TWS on a\
      \ monthly basis. VA sends Treasury a file containing all of VA's payments. Specifically,\
      \ VA submits the Payment Automation Manager (PAM) file to Treasury for matching\
      \ against the TWS data sources. VA payments are matched against the TWS databases\
      \ at the time of disbursement and the TWS match results are available in the\
      \ TWS the next business day for adjudication. VA downloads TWS match results\
      \ and review/adjudication of TWS matches are performed in accordance with VA\
      \ processes and procedures. Therefore, VA is only able to use the TWS to confirm\
      \ improper payments after the payment has already been made and potentially\
      \ prevent future improper payments once due process is provided.  \n\nAdditionally,\
      \ the Veterans Benefit Administration is currently piloting the Death Record\
      \ Confidence (DRC) Scoring Tool, a new tool developed by DNP to help analytic\
      \ customers prioritize their research efforts, improve their adjudication processes,\
      \ and make informed decisions about payment eligibility. This tool is intended\
      \ to enable DNP to more effectively identify deceased individuals within a dataset\
      \ and help customers understand which payments are at risk of being issued to\
      \ a deceased payee. The DRC Scoring tool includes access to the Electronic Verification\
      \ of Vital Events Facts of Death. The new data source contains information about\
      \ death certificates contained within the vital records of 44 participating\
      \ states and jurisdictions. VA will utilize any TWS reports created by Treasury\
      \ for using this functionality in future required reporting.\n\nThe Veterans\
      \ Benefit Administration Insurance program utilizes the continuous monitoring\
      \ file and has the ability to submit a file and receive matches before payments\
      \ are made. Currently, there are no reports within TWS that track identification\
      \ and/or prevention of improper payments that would enable VA to report on use\
      \ of this function."
  Stats:
    dpa1_no: 16.363636363636363
    dpa1_yes: 83.63636363636364
    dpa2_no: 34.78260869565217
    dpa2_yes: 65.21739130434783
    dpa3_annually: 13.043478260869565
    dpa3_daily: 4.3478260869565215
    dpa3_monthly: 21.73913043478261
    dpa3_na: 56.52173913043478
    dpa3_quarterly: 0.0
    dpa3_weekly: 4.3478260869565215
Fiscal_Year: 2023
Page_Name: '2023_9'
Report_Id: '9'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: Summary of Report Requirements from 31 U.S.C. § 3354
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 0
  Text: (5) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall
    submit to Congress an annual report, which may be included as part of another
    report submitted to Congress by the Director, regarding the operation of the Do
    Not Pay Initiative, which shall—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (A) include an evaluation of whether the Do Not Pay Initiative has reduced
    improper payments or improper awards; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (B) provide the frequency of corrections or identification of incorrect information.
  Type: REGULAR
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2023_9
title: OMB Do Not Pay Initiative Report
---
