---
Agency: HUD
Agency_Name: Department of Housing and Urban Development
Fiscal_Year: 2023
Page_Name: 2023_HUD_5
Report_Id: '5'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: e) REPORTS ON ACTIONS TO RECOVER IMPROPER PAYMENTS.—... the head of the executive
    agency shall provide ...a report on all actions the executive agency is taking
    to recover the improper payments (identified in a recovery audit) ..including—
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 1
  Text: (1) a discussion of the methods used by the executive agency to recover improper
    payments;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (2) the amounts recovered, outstanding, and determined to not be collectable,
    including the percent those amounts represent of the total improper payments of
    the executive agency;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (3) if a determination has been made that certain improper payments are not
    collectable, a justification of that determination;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (4) an aging schedule of the amounts outstanding;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (5) a summary of how recovered amounts have been disposed of;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (6) a discussion of any conditions giving rise to improper payments and how
    those conditions are being resolved; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (7) if the executive agency has determined ...that performing recovery audits
    for any applicable program or activity is not cost-effective, a justification
    for that determination.
  Type: REGULAR
SurveyData:
- Answer: "For internal offsets, over-claimed amounts (negative claims) occur when\
    \ the mortgagee owes FHA. The Single-Family Claims Branch (SFCB) sends billing\
    \ letters to lenders for the excess amounts claimed and tracks the receivables\
    \ using the Accounts Receivables Sub-system (ARS). Receivables are established\
    \ in SFCB’s ARS and identified by an FHA case number. Each FHA case number is\
    \ further identified by Section of the Act (which is linked to the appropriate\
    \ fund) and endorsement date. This later date identifies the cohort year. The\
    \ Holder of record to which the claim funds were originally disbursed is identified\
    \ in ARS as the debtor, by default. When the receivable is subsequently liquidated\
    \ by funds remitted by a Mortgagee or by offset, the collected amount is posted\
    \ to the previously identified FHA case number, Section of the Act, and cohort\
    \ year.\n\nIf a payment is not received from a lender within 90 days, the receivable\
    \ is offset against subsequent claims by the lender until the full amount of the\
    \ receivable is satisfied. If a receivable is not satisfied within 120-150 days,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC in Albany, NY for enforced collection actions. At\
    \ that time, the FOC officially confirms acceptance of the transfer of an aged\
    \ delinquent debt, and that receivables have been removed from the ARS with the\
    \ notation that it has been referred to the FOC for recovery.\nAnother avenue\
    \ by which improper payments are recaptured is through Post Claim Reviews for\
    \ title II Single Family Insurance Claims. A statistical sample of settled claims\
    \ is reviewed for compliance with FHA servicing and claim filing requirements.\
    \ A report on findings, is prepared and issued to the individual mortgagee. Mortgagees\
    \ can refute the findings by providing additional documents before a final report\
    \ is issued. If the Mortgagee chooses to pay the monetary findings prior to HUD’s\
    \ issuance of the final report, those funds are deposited to ARS, which applies\
    \ them to the Mortgage Insurance (MI) fund. Upon issuance of the final report,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC which establishes it as a receivable and tracks it\
    \ until paid in full. If a lender is overpaid on a Multifamily claim, the Multifamily\
    \ Claims Branch will demand the overage back from the lender. If the lender fails\
    \ to respond to their demands, the debt is referred to the FOC for collection.\
    \ Lastly, for Treasury Cross-Servicing, the collection of generic debt is governed\
    \ by the Debt Collection Improvement Act and HUD policies (Title I and Other Debt\
    \ Collection Guidance 4740.2). The Act requires federal agencies to refer eligible\
    \ delinquent debts to Treasury (for Cross-Servicing and TOP) when the debt is\
    \ 120 days delinquent.\n\nThe Treasury’s TOP allows federal agencies to report\
    \ delinquent non-tax debt to the Treasury’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS).\
    \ BFS performs computer matching with disbursement data and processes an offset\
    \ when an appropriate match is determined. After referral, Treasury and its private\
    \ collection agencies are responsible for contacting the debtor to collect the\
    \ payment of the debt. The Treasury’s Cross-Servicing is a process used by BFS\
    \ to refer the debt collection to a private collection agency, among other actions,\
    \ to collect delinquent debts on behalf of Federal Agencies.\n\nThe FOC’s recapture\
    \ process establishes receivables in DCAMS and issues a demand notice to the debtor(s).\
    \ If the debt remains unpaid, DCAMS issues a “Notice of Intent” warning regarding\
    \ enforced collection measures and informs the debtor regarding their due process\
    \ rights. DCAMS automatically reports information to credit bureaus and CAIVRS.\
    \ Penalty and administrative cost charges are also automatically assessed if warranted.\
    \ \n\nIf the debt remains unpaid, it is referred to Treasury (within 180 days)\
    \ for offset via the government-wide TOP and for direct collection action by Treasury\
    \ and Treasury contracted private collection agencies. Treasury also initiates\
    \ referral to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for civil litigation and/or initiates\
    \ Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG) action if they deem such action to be\
    \ appropriate. If Treasury’s Cross-Servicing action is not successful, Treasury\
    \ “returns” the debt to the FOC. If older than two years, the receivable is written-off\
    \ and the case is reclassified “currently not collectible.” The FOC keeps the\
    \ case open if offset via TOP appears fruitful or if other collection measures\
    \ are applicable (e.g., AWG action by HUD). Otherwise, the FOC terminates collection\
    \ action, closes the case, and the system issues an IRS Form 1099C “Cancellation\
    \ of Debt,” the following January if appropriate. Write-off, Termination, close-out,\
    \ and 1099C issuance can also occur at any point in the above collection cycle\
    \ if determined appropriate (e.g., debtor is discharged as bankrupt).\n\nCollections\
    \ from debtors to HUD go to the Treasury Lockbox Network or Pay.gov. Collections\
    \ from debtors to Treasury or DOJ come to HUD via interagency transfer (i.e.,\
    \ Intra-Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC)). No matter the route, all\
    \ payments are posted to the receivable in DCAMS."
  Heading: Conditions Giving Rise to Improper Payments Identified in Recovery Audits,
    How Those Conditions are Being Resolved, & Methods Used to Recover Improper Payments
    Identified in Recovery Audits
  Key: arp17
  SortOrder: 0
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
- Answer: "Salaries and Expenses\nAdministrative Offices - Other Contractual Services\
    \ \nProgram Offices - Other Contractual Services\nThe Office of the Chief Human\
    \ Capital Officer (OCHCO) Administrative and Budget Services manages Transit Subsidy\
    \ payments. \nFor the Payroll, Benefits and Retirement Division (PBRD), OCHCO\
    \ reviews the unpaid report to ensure all HUD employees are paid based on their\
    \ certified timecard for the Personnel Office Identifier (POI) 4408. If erroneous\
    \ payments were made due to an error in personnel and benefits, OCHCO then takes\
    \ the necessary action(s) to rectify the mistake. For example, OCHCO collaborates\
    \ with the BFS and the Department of Agriculture’s National Finance Center (NFC)\
    \ to run all the necessary reports to determine where the discrepancy was made.\
    \ Once the source has been identified, OCHCO corrects the issue or determines\
    \ if it is feasible to correct the improper payment. Through the PBRD quality\
    \ review process, overpayments are identified and validated. Once validated and\
    \ corrected through the NFC database, the debt is generated, and the employee\
    \ is notified of the indebtedness. After due process, the collection process is\
    \ initiated.\nAlso, the Human Resources (HR) Division performs a quality review\
    \ based on the personnel data generated from the NFC FOCUS report or NFC Reporting\
    \ Center application for personnel and benefits actions. The report data is used\
    \ to determine if there are any incorrect coverage plans, personnel data or duty\
    \ locations which will cause an overpayment for the employee. If so, the History\
    \ Correction Update Processing (HCUP) system is used to correct the error, which\
    \ will automatically generate a bill if it is within twenty-six (26) pay periods.\
    \ Outside of the pay period timeframe, HR will manually calculate the amount owed\
    \ and enter the data to be submitted to NFC via the Special Payroll Processing\
    \ System (SPPS). The employee will be informed of the indebtedness; and have an\
    \ opportunity to setup a payment plan.\nThe Office of the Chief Financial Officer\
    \ (OCFO) provides assistance and advice to HUD program budget offices on improper\
    \ payroll payments and payroll corrections on an ad-hoc basis and upon request.\
    \ For other than payroll payments such as travel payments, purchase card payments,\
    \ contract payments, and Interagency Agreement (IAA) payments, program offices\
    \ follow the Administrative Control of Funds Policies (Administrative Control\
    \ of Funds Policies, 1830.2 REV-6) to ensure improper payments are prevented or\
    \ detected and corrected and OCFO-Budget provides assistance to budget offices\
    \ upon request. Reports run from HUD’s Financial System (Oracle Business Intelligence/OBI)\
    \ suite of reports to include the Procurement Request Information System Management\
    \ (PRISM) and Travel reports, and other payment systems (e.g., Invoice Processing\
    \ Platform (IPP), Intra.gov, Concur), are used to identify, and sometimes, recover\
    \ improper non-payroll Salaries and Expenses (S&E) payments. Most program offices\
    \ have designated individuals to run and review payment reports for discrepancies\
    \ and improper payments including unauthorized purchases in line with departmental\
    \ and program office funds control policies. Additionally, program office Contracting\
    \ Officer Representatives (CORs) ensure invoice payments are proper and made in\
    \ line with contract guidelines through the use of reports ran through IPP and\
    \ related OBI reports.\nAs part of the bi-weekly payroll projection process, OCFO-Budget\
    \ runs reports from OBI’s repository of payroll reports and flags any payroll\
    \ corrections or unusual payroll activities for program budget offices. Upon request\
    \ and on an ad-hoc basis, OCFO-Budget provides assistance in the correction of\
    \ improper payroll payments by running reports from OBI’s repository of payroll\
    \ reports (Cost and Hours report) and providing data regarding payroll corrections\
    \ to program budget offices and Treasury’s ARC.\nAdditionally, program Budget\
    \ office’s work with ARC, HUD OCFO, and HUD’s OCPO HUD CPO in the payment recapture\
    \ process as it relates to non-payroll S&E improper payments. For example, program\
    \ budget office’s work with OCFO’s travel management staff on the recapture of\
    \ improper payments.\nThe Administrative Control of Funds Policies Handbook outlines\
    \ procedures and points to additional guidance program offices follow that can\
    \ lead to the identification, recovery, and prevention of future improper payments.\n\
    \nLead Hazard Reduction\nDuring grant execution, the Office of Lead Hazard Control\
    \ and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH) reviews grantee invoices, vouchers and supporting\
    \ documentation. If an improper payment is identified, the Government Technical\
    \ Representative (GTR) or the COR, as applicable, provides fund recipients with\
    \ documentation of the determination of the improper payment, the regulatory,\
    \ grant-specific, and/or contractual basis for recovering the improper payment,\
    \ a due date for recoupment, and a due-process opportunity to appeal. The appeal,\
    \ if made, goes to the Grants Division Director (for grants) or the COR (for contracts),\
    \ as applicable. Should the request not be appealed, or the appeal denied, and\
    \ the funding recipient did not refund the improper payment, the matter would\
    \ be referred to the OGC for action. \nDuring the close-out of a grant, if it\
    \ is determined that a financial error occurred, the grantee is asked to provide\
    \ an explanation for the problem and, if required by the GTR, the grantee submits\
    \ a check to resolve the financial shortfall. The COR forwards the check and a\
    \ letter of explanation to the Budget Officer for the recapturing of funds. \n\
    In addition, the GTR includes a copy of the check and the letter of explanation\
    \ with the close-out package to the Grants Officer. The Grants Officer documents\
    \ the returned funds on form HUD-1044 (Assistance Award/Assistance). OLHCHH’s\
    \ process assures quality spending and monitoring for reimbursable funding. The\
    \ likelihood of improper reimbursements are low due to several reasons. OLHCHH\
    \ is a reimbursement program; the funds distributed are for services that have\
    \ already been completed and invoiced. Additionally, every three months, grantees\
    \ submit information on work performed and provide a financial statement using\
    \ the Federal Financial Report (SF-425), HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and supporting\
    \ documentation. The SF-425, HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and the LOCCS VRS Request\
    \ Voucher for Grant Payment (form HUD-27053) must match data in LOCCS and all\
    \ totals must be the same. Under remote monitoring, a GTR performs a review to\
    \ ensure accuracy, as needed. On-site monitoring is conducted once a year after\
    \ a risk analysis is completed and/or high-risk is determined for each grantee.\
    \ Poor performing grantees are required to submit weekly or monthly reports. During\
    \ grant execution, the OLHCHH reviews grantee invoices, vouchers and supporting\
    \ documentation. If an improper payment is identified, the GTR or the COR, as\
    \ applicable, provides fund recipients with documentation of the determination\
    \ of the improper payment, the regulatory, grant-specific, and/or contractual\
    \ basis for recovering the improper payment, a due date for recoupment, and a\
    \ due-process opportunity to appeal. The appeal, if made, goes to the Grants Division\
    \ Director (for grants) or the COR (for contracts), as applicable. Should the\
    \ request not be appealed, or the appeal denied, and the funding recipient did\
    \ not refund the improper payment, the matter would be referred to the OGC for\
    \ action. \nDuring the close-out of a grant, if it is determined that a financial\
    \ error occurred, the grantee is asked to provide an explanation for the problem\
    \ and, if required by the GTR, the grantee submits a check to resolve the financial\
    \ shortfall. The COR forwards the check and a letter of explanation to the Budget\
    \ Officer for the recapturing of funds. \nIn addition, the GTR includes a copy\
    \ of the check and the letter of explanation with the close-out package to the\
    \ Grants Officer. The Grants Officer documents the returned funds on form HUD-1044\
    \ (Assistance Award/Assistance). OLHCHH’s process assures quality spending and\
    \ monitoring for reimbursable funding. The risks of improper reimbursements are\
    \ low due to several reasons. OLHCHH is a reimbursement program; the funds distributed\
    \ are for services that have already been completed and invoiced. Additionally,\
    \ every three months, grantees submit information on work performed and provide\
    \ a financial statement using the Federal Financial Report (SF-425), HUD-Part\
    \ 3 Budget form, and supporting documentation. The SF-425, HUD-Part 3 Budget form,\
    \ and the LOCCS VRS Request Voucher for Grant Payment (form HUD-27053) must match\
    \ data in LOCCS and all totals must be the same. Under remote monitoring, a GTR\
    \ performs a review to ensure accuracy, as needed. On-site monitoring is conducted\
    \ once a year after a risk analysis is completed and/or high-risk is determined\
    \ for each grantee. Poor performing grantees are required to submit weekly or\
    \ monthly reports.\n\nContracts/Grants (includes Single Family Upfront Grants)\n\
    Federal Finance Bank Direct Loans\nHome Equity Conversion Mortgage Claims\nHome\
    \ Equity Conversion Mortgage Notes\nMulti-Family Insurance Claims\nMulti-Family\
    \ Notes\nMulti-Family Property\nSingle Family Claims\nSingle Family Property\n\
    Title I Notes\nTitle I Claims\nOther Disbursements\nThe Office of Housing-Federal\
    \ Housing Administration’s (HSNG–FHA) recovery audit program is part of its overall\
    \ program of effective internal control over payments. Internal control policies\
    \ and procedures establishes a system to monitor improper payments and their causes,\
    \ and includes controls and actions for detecting, preventing, and recovering\
    \ improper payments. On a recurring basis, these programs generate reports that\
    \ identify potentially duplicate disbursements. These disbursements are researched,\
    \ and recovery actions are initiated for payments deemed improper. As part of\
    \ the recapture audit plan, internal control documents and files are reviewed,\
    \ and post claim reviews are performed. \nUnder Title I and Other Debt Collection\
    \ Guidance Handbook 4740.2, the Financial Operation Center (FOC) is primarily\
    \ responsible for generic debt collection and customer service activities, including\
    \ responding to debtor inquiries regarding pay-off, payment plans, compromises,\
    \ disputes, and appeals. The debt referral package primarily consists of copies\
    \ of legal documents, mortgages, deeds of trust, judgments and other recorded\
    \ lien documents, lien assignment documents, repayment agreements, credit reports,\
    \ correspondence to/from debtors, and compromise agreements and supporting documents.\
    \ \nThe Debt Collection Asset Management System (DCAMS) is the application used\
    \ to support the generic debt collection process. DCAMS is designed to automatically\
    \ send collection letters, report delinquent debt to credit bureaus and HUD’s\
    \ Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), assess penalties and\
    \ administrative costs, and refer eligible debts to the Treasury Offset Program\
    \ (TOP) and Cross-Servicing. Based on predefined criteria and the status of that\
    \ case as reflected in DCAMS data fields (not later than 180 days after the demand\
    \ letter), DCAMS is consistently updated to prevent improper referral for TOP\
    \ offset. \nFor internal offsets, over-claimed amounts (negative claims) occur\
    \ when the mortgagee owes FHA. The Single-Family Claims Branch (SFCB) sends billing\
    \ letters to lenders for the excess amounts claimed and tracks the receivables\
    \ using the Accounts Receivables Sub-system (ARS). Receivables are established\
    \ in SFCB’s ARS and identified by an FHA case number. Each FHA case number is\
    \ further identified by Section of the Act (which is linked to the appropriate\
    \ fund) and endorsement date. This later date identifies the cohort year. The\
    \ Holder of record to which the claim funds were originally disbursed is identified\
    \ in ARS as the debtor, by default. When the receivable is subsequently liquidated\
    \ by funds remitted by a Mortgagee or by offset, the collected amount is posted\
    \ to the previously identified FHA case number, Section of the Act, and cohort\
    \ year. \nIf a payment is not received from a lender within 90 days, the receivable\
    \ is offset against subsequent claims by the lender until the full amount of the\
    \ receivable is satisfied. If a receivable is not satisfied within 120-150 days,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC in Albany, NY for enforced collection actions. At\
    \ that time, the FOC officially confirms acceptance of the transfer of an aged\
    \ delinquent debt, and that receivables have been removed from the ARS with the\
    \ notation that it has been referred to the FOC for recovery. \nAnother avenue\
    \ by which improper payments are recaptured is through Post Claim Reviews for\
    \ title II Single Family Insurance Claims. A statistical sample of settled claims\
    \ is reviewed for compliance with FHA servicing and claim filing requirements.\
    \ A report on findings, is prepared and issued to the individual mortgagee. Mortgagees\
    \ can refute the findings by providing additional documents before a final report\
    \ is issued. If the Mortgagee chooses to pay the monetary findings prior to HUD’s\
    \ issuance of the final report, those funds are deposited to ARS, which applies\
    \ them to the Mortgage Insurance (MI) fund. Upon issuance of the final report,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC which establishes it as a receivable and tracks it\
    \ until paid in full. If a lender is overpaid on a Multifamily claim, the Multifamily\
    \ Claims Branch will demand the overage back from the lender. If the lender fails\
    \ to respond to their demands, the debt is referred to the FOC for collection.\
    \ Lastly, for Treasury Cross-Servicing, the collection of generic debt is governed\
    \ by the Debt Collection Improvement Act and HUD policies (Title I and Other Debt\
    \ Collection Guidance 4740.2). The Act requires federal agencies to refer eligible\
    \ delinquent debts to Treasury (for Cross-Servicing and TOP) when the debt is\
    \ 120 days delinquent. \nThe Treasury’s TOP allows federal agencies to report\
    \ delinquent non-tax debt to the BFS. BFS performs computer matching with disbursement\
    \ data and processes an offset when an appropriate match is determined. After\
    \ referral, Treasury and its private collection agencies are responsible for contacting\
    \ the debtor to collect the payment of the debt. The Treasury’s Cross-Servicing\
    \ is a process used by BFS to refer the debt collection to a private collection\
    \ agency, among other actions, to collect delinquent debts on behalf of Federal\
    \ Agencies. \nThe FOC’s recapture process establishes receivables in DCAMS and\
    \ issues a demand notice to the debtor(s). If the debt remains unpaid, DCAMS issues\
    \ a “Notice of Intent” warning regarding enforced collection measures and informs\
    \ the debtor regarding their due process rights. DCAMS automatically reports information\
    \ to credit bureaus and CAIVRS. Penalty and administrative cost charges are also\
    \ automatically assessed if warranted. \nIf the debt remains unpaid, it is referred\
    \ to Treasury (within 180 days) for offset via the government-wide TOP and for\
    \ direct collection action by Treasury and Treasury contracted private collection\
    \ agencies. Treasury also initiates referral to the Department of Justice (DOJ)\
    \ for civil litigation and/or initiates Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG)\
    \ action if they deem such action to be appropriate. \nIf Treasury’s Cross-Servicing\
    \ action is not successful, Treasury “returns” the debt to the FOC. If older than\
    \ two years, the receivable is written-off and the case is reclassified “currently\
    \ not collectible.” The FOC keeps the case open if offset via TOP appears fruitful\
    \ or if other collection measures are applicable (e.g., AWG action by HUD). Otherwise,\
    \ the FOC terminates collection action, closes the case, and the system issues\
    \ an IRS Form 1099C “Cancellation of Debt,” the following January if appropriate.\
    \ Write-off, Termination, close-out, and 1099C issuance can also occur at any\
    \ point in the above collection cycle if determined appropriate (e.g., debtor\
    \ is discharged as bankrupt). \nCollections from debtors to HUD go to the Treasury\
    \ Lockbox Network or Pay.gov. Collections from debtors to Treasury or DOJ come\
    \ to HUD via interagency transfer (i.e., Intra-Governmental Payment and Collection\
    \ (IPAC)). No matter the route, all payments are posted to the receivable in DCAMS."
  Heading: Conditions Giving Rise to Improper Payments Identified in Recovery Audits,
    How Those Conditions are Being Resolved, & Methods Used to Recover Improper Payments
    Identified in Recovery Audits
  Key: ara2_1
  SortOrder: 1
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
- Answer: '3.37'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Recovered
  Key: arp6
  SortOrder: 2
  Subheading: ''
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '42.984693877551'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Recovered
  Key: arp3_1
  SortOrder: 3
  Subheading: ''
  Type: PERCENTAGE
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp7
  SortOrder: 4
  Subheading: Used to administer the Recovery Audits and Activities Program
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp8
  SortOrder: 5
  Subheading: Used for a Financial Management Improvement Program
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp9
  SortOrder: 6
  Subheading: Used for the original purpose
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp10
  SortOrder: 7
  Subheading: Used for Inspector General Activities
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp11
  SortOrder: 8
  Subheading: Returned to Treasury
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '3.37'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp12
  SortOrder: 9
  Subheading: Returned to the Original Account
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '6.48'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Outstanding
  Key: arp5
  SortOrder: 10
  Subheading: ''
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '82.65306122449'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Outstanding
  Key: arp5_1
  SortOrder: 11
  Subheading: ''
  Type: PERCENTAGE
- Answer: '6.48'
  Heading: Aging Schedule of the Amounts Outstanding
  Key: arp14
  SortOrder: 12
  Subheading: 0 to 6 Months Outstanding
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: Aging Schedule of the Amounts Outstanding
  Key: arp15
  SortOrder: 13
  Subheading: 6 to 12 Months Outstanding
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Determined to Not Be Collectible
  Key: arp4
  SortOrder: 14
  Subheading: ''
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Determined to Not Be Collectible
  Key: arp4_1
  SortOrder: 15
  Subheading: ''
  Type: PERCENTAGE
- Answer: "I. Nature of the Program\nA payment recapture audit was deemed not be cost-beneficial\
    \ based on the nature of these programs. Collectability is a concern as tenants\
    \ may no longer be receiving housing assistance when the overpayments are identified,\
    \ or many may not be able to repay the subsidy with their own resources. HSNG\
    \ Owners/ PIH PHAs use the Enterprise Income Verification (EIV) system to verify\
    \ tenant employment/income information and reduce administrative and subsidy payment\
    \ errors in accordance with HUD administrative guidance. The program Points of\
    \ Contact (POC) use EIV to monitor the owner’s compliance with access and use\
    \ of the system. However, tenant files are stored locally at each Multifamily\
    \ property and some RHAP activities are administered by PHAs nationwide. A recovery\
    \ audit would involve substantial travel costs in addition to staff time. There\
    \ are also no centralized computer database capturing documents used to support\
    \ the rental subsidy determinations. Therefore, the cost of any additional attempts\
    \ to recover improper payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\
    \nII. Lack of Empirical Evidence\nThe results of HUD’s payment integrity risk\
    \ assessments identified these programs as not susceptible to significant improper\
    \ payments. There is no empirical evidence, either through risk assessments, A-123\
    \ internal control reviews, and other monitoring reviews, that suggests significant\
    \ improper payments exist within these programs and activities, and it is not\
    \ likely that HUD would realize any benefit to payment recapture audits of these\
    \ programs. Therefore, the cost of any additional attempts to recover improper\
    \ payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\nIII. Similar\
    \ Overpayment Recovery Activities for CPD Programs\nThe CPD funds have a monitoring\
    \ process in place to assess the quality of performance of the grantee over time\
    \ and promptly resolve the findings of audits and other reviews. Monitoring provides\
    \ information about program participants that is critical for making informed\
    \ judgments about program effectiveness and management efficiency. It also helps\
    \ in identifying instances of fraud, waste, and abuse. The process involves frequent\
    \ telephone/email contacts, written communications, analysis of reports and audits,\
    \ and periodic meetings. Monitoring also provides opportunities to identify program\
    \ participant accomplishments as well as successful management/ implementation/evaluation\
    \ techniques that might be replicated by other CPD program participants. \nParties\
    \ involved include Special Need Assistance Programs (SNAP), Field Offices, Office\
    \ of Policy Development and Coordination (OPDC), Office of Rural Housing and Economic\
    \ Development (ORHED), Office of General Counsel (OGC), Budget and OCFO. CPD’s\
    \ program exhibit 34-1a, Guide for Review of Financial Management and Audits,\
    \ is designed to monitor non-federal entity’s compliance with requirements of\
    \ Subparts D and F of 2 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) part 200, Uniform Administrative\
    \ Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, except\
    \ for cost allowability, procurement and equipment. During the monitoring process,\
    \ program expenditures are reviewed to determine if improper payments were made.\
    \ If identified CPD determines whether the appropriate corrective actions took\
    \ place. In most cases, CPD will recapture overpayments by offsetting future draws.\
    \ Overpayments in the Neighborhood Stabilization Program are addressed through\
    \ reduction of future allocations as opposed to future draws. If there are no\
    \ remaining funds on the grant, HUD will typically instruct the grantee to either\
    \ repay funds from non-federal funds sources to their grant’s line of credit in\
    \ Line of Credit Control System (LOCCS) or to the Treasury’s account if the grant\
    \ has been closed. A remittance to the line of credit of less than $2,000 may\
    \ be made by sending a check to HUD-FAD Collections Ft. Worth PO Box 6200-05,\
    \ whereas any remittance of more than $2,000 must be sent via wire transfer to\
    \ the Department of U.S. Treasury’s Financial Communications System (TFCS). CPD\
    \ programs could also withhold additional funding until the overpayment has been\
    \ recovered. \nIn addition, the results of HUD’s payment integrity risk assessment\
    \ identified these programs as not susceptible to significant improper payments.\
    \ Therefore, the cost of any additional attempts to recover improper payments\
    \ would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\nIV. Similar Overpayment\
    \ Recovery Activities for Ginnie Mae Programs\nFor any overpayments identified,\
    \ Ginnie Mae will either request reimbursement or offset future payments to the\
    \ contractor. However, if there are no future invoices to be provided, Ginnie\
    \ Mae will request reimbursement for the improper payment. To recover overpayments\
    \ made to the General Services Administration (GSA) for invoice payments to a\
    \ vendor, Ginnie Mae will process an IPAC. When the cost of recovering improper\
    \ payments is greater than the benefits, then Ginnie Mae will not pursue any further\
    \ actions than mitigating strategies as outlined already. \nAs it relates to the\
    \ Pass-Through Assistance Program (PTAP) program, which is new for 2021, the process\
    \ for identifying improper payments includes validation of the request against\
    \ the loan and pool information submitted to the Reporting and Feedback System\
    \ (RFS), evaluation of the issuers equity and liquidity as reported with the PTAP\
    \ request, and evaluation of the custodial account balance from which the Investor\
    \ payments will be drawn.\nThe PTAP disbursement process is the same as in all\
    \ Ginnie Mae disbursement requests. The PTAP disbursement request is processed\
    \ for review and approval for payment. All payment requests are approved by an\
    \ Independent Certifying Officer (ICO) (who accepts personal financial responsibility\
    \ and criminal liability for improper payments they certify). The cost of recovering\
    \ improper payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered and\
    \ would not be beneficial to the program.\n\nV. Similar Overpayment Recovery Activities\
    \ for Other Rental Assistance Programs\nThe results of HUD’s payment integrity\
    \ risk assessment identified these programs as not susceptible to significant\
    \ improper payments. All owners receiving funding from these programs are mandated\
    \ by 24 CFR 5.233 to fully utilize HUD’s EIV system. EIV is a web-based application\
    \ which provides owners with employment, wage, unemployment compensation and social\
    \ security benefit information for tenants participating in HUD’s assisted housing\
    \ programs. Tenant Rental Assistance Certification System (TRACS) is a system\
    \ developed to improve the fiscal control over assisted housing programs and acts\
    \ as the sole repository of all tenant certification data, assistance contract\
    \ data and crucial payment data. EIV is matched against TRACS and a variance of\
    \ $2,400 per year generates an error and owners are required to follow-up with\
    \ the tenant and resolve the error. If an overpayment is identified, tenants may\
    \ pay the owner in a lump sum or by entering into a repayment agreement. Therefore,\
    \ the cost of any additional attempts to recover improper payments would exceed\
    \ the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\nOf the thirty-seven (37) programs\
    \ excluded from a Payment Recapture Audit, the remaining fifteen (15) programs\
    \ have other mechanisms in place to recover overpayments.\n"
  Heading: Justification for the Determination that Performing Recovery Audits are
    Not Cost-Effective
  Key: ara2_3
  SortOrder: 17
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
SurveyName: Survey Responses
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2023_HUD_5
title: Agency Actions to Recover Improper Payments Identified in a Recovery Audit
  Report
---
