---
Agency: SSA
Agency_Name: Social Security Administration
Fiscal_Year: 2024
Page_Name: 2024_SSA_4
ProgramSurveyData:
- ActionsTaken:
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Cross Enterprise Sharing
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by inability to\
      \ access the data or information needed, we will pursue new data exchange partners\
      \ from government and private sectors in collaboration with our agency business\
      \ sponsors.  We plan to expand our outreach efforts with the Data Exchange Community\
      \ of Practice (DXCOP) and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to\
      \ engage more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining\
      \ the exchange of data.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, we implemented two new incoming\
      \ data exchanges with State foster care agencies.  These data exchanges assist\
      \ in avoiding improper payments when a child's foster placement has changed.\
      \  For FY 2024, 24 states/entities signed an Information Exchange Agreement\
      \ and are participating, and 10 states signed the Information Exchange Agreement\
      \ of State Foster Data Exchanges.  These data exchanges assist in avoiding improper\
      \ payments when a child's foster placement has changed.  We continue to engage\
      \ State agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  In June and September\
      \ 2024, we held DXCOP meetings.  We continue to engage State agencies for the\
      \ purpose of expanding this exchange.  We plan to expand our outreach efforts\
      \ with the DXCOP and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage\
      \ more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining\
      \ the exchange of data.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure\
      \ to access data or information needed, we are improving our death data processing.\
      \  We collect data from a variety of sources so that we can administer our programs.\
      \  We have a contract with every State Bureau of Vital Statistics (the custodians\
      \ for death records) and with some jurisdictions to provide us death data. \
      \ Since 2002, we worked with States that want and are able to build a streamlined\
      \ death registration process known as Electronic Death Registration (EDR). \
      \ As of January 2022, all 50 States report deaths through the EDR process. \
      \ We plan to continue making progress in centralizing our death inputs, improving\
      \ the quality and processing of death data, and updating historical death records\
      \ in our databases.  In April 2024, for processing death reports, we issued\
      \ a reminder to technicians to the Death Information Processing System for reports\
      \ of death for enumerated individuals.  To improve the completeness of our death\
      \ information, we are in the early stages of contracting with the National Association\
      \ for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems on the acquisition of\
      \ historical State death records.  This effort will increase the accuracy, integrity,\
      \ and completeness of our death data.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused\
      \ by inability to access the data or information needed, and failure to access\
      \ data or information needed, we developed a data exchange for the Federal Employment\
      \ Compensation Act Data.  The Federal Employment Compensation Act (FECA) workers’\
      \ compensation program, which is administered by the Department of Labor (DOL),\
      \ provides coverage to three million Federal and Postal workers.  Receipt of\
      \ FECA benefits can offset Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)\
      \ benefits.  We have agreed with DOL to move forward with our request for DOL\
      \ FECA data.  We are working to finalize the agreement for DOL to provide FECA\
      \ payment data to assist us in our offset requirements.  In December 2023, the\
      \ agency established an eCOMP system Memorandum of Understanding with DOL to\
      \ obtain FECA benefits to allow the agency to offset OASDI benefits and prevent\
      \ or reduce overpayments.  Technicians can complete an ad hoc query in eCOMP\
      \ to obtain FECA data, the FECA payment status, dates, amounts and it is immediately\
      \ available to the technician via the eCOMP portal.  In April 2024, we provided\
      \ reminders on how to process initial claims with workers compensation lump-sum\
      \ settlement allegations.  We expect the exchange to be completed in FY 2025.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or\
      \ information needed, and failure to access data or information needed, and\
      \ to reduce the reliance on self-reporting of wages, we are developing new wage\
      \ reporting tools, such as an automated information exchange with commercial\
      \ payroll data providers authorized by section 824 of the Bipartisan Budget\
      \ Act of 2015, now referred to as the Payroll Information Exchange (PIE).  In\
      \ February 2024, we published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) describing\
      \ the agency’s plans for accessing and using information from payroll data providers\
      \ to reduce improper payments (overpayments and underpayments), which improves\
      \ service to customers.  The public comment period closed on April 15, 2024.\
      \  We are carefully considering the comments as we draft the final rule, which\
      \ is currently planned for publication in winter of FY 2025.  In FY 2024, we\
      \ completed the automated PIE wage reporting notices and created a limited issue\
      \ diary to alert technicians when incoming wage and employment information from\
      \ PIE doesn't automatically post to the SSI record, requiring manual review\
      \ and action.  We plan to implement PIE in the Spring of 2025 through a phased\
      \ approach.  This timeline will ensure compliance with rulemaking requirements\
      \ and allow us to respond to public concerns from the NPRM public comment period."
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp5_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Training
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we issue reminders and policy clarifications to
      employees, as needed.  In November 2023, we issued a reminder to technicians
      about the importance of inputting Family Max when manually calculating benefits.  In
      March 2024, we updated policy providing detailed information to technicians
      regarding the importance of securing non-covered Government Pension data timely,
      when applicable, in order to calculate the correct benefit amount.  We will
      continue to issue reminders and policy clarifications to employees, as needed.
    Mitigation_Strategy: app3_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Audit
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we developed a Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP)
      and Government Pension Offset (GPO) Corrective Action Plan.  We developed a
      comprehensive corrective action plan to address multiple underlying causes of
      WEP and GPO improper payments.  We formed a cross agency work group to review
      all Office of the Inspector General and internal studies to compile a comprehensive
      list of recommended changes in WEP and GPO implementation.  We assessed the
      root causes of improper payments based on these changes and developed policy,
      data, systems, and training solutions in line with each of the root causes of
      improper payments.  We developed a logic model framework to measure the effectiveness
      of completed corrective action that includes establishing benchmarks to evaluate
      the corrective actions, assessing the impact, if possible, and determining whether
      additional mitigation activities are necessary.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, the
      WEP/GPO calculator was added to the redesigned SSA.gov website.  In FY 2023,
      there was an increase in improper payments related to WEP, but overall, since
      FY 2017, there has been a significant reduction in improper payments related
      to WEP and GPO.  In March 2024, we provided detailed information to technicians
      regarding the importance of securing non-covered Government Pension data timely,
      when applicable, in order to calculate the correct benefit amount.  In FY 2024,
      we developed a new policy to address multiple non-covered pensions distributed
      or terminated at different periods of time.  This will provide a consistent
      national policy.  We plan to publish the policy in FY 2025.
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp6_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Behavioral/Psych Influence
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by inability to\
      \ access the data or information needed, we inform Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability\
      \ Insurance beneficiaries about their reporting responsibilities.  To determine\
      \ whether a beneficiary meets the Marital Status eligibility criteria, we must\
      \ evaluate a beneficiary’s state of being unmarried, married, divorced, or widowed.\
      \  Entitlement to some categories of benefits is impacted by the beneficiary’s\
      \ marital status, so we rely on beneficiaries to report changes in their marital\
      \ status.  Section 826 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 required the Commissioner\
      \ to establish and implement a system permitting Disability Insurance (DI) beneficiaries\
      \ to report their earnings electronically.  Our myWageReport (myWR) online application,\
      \ allows DI beneficiaries, Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients, concurrent\
      \ beneficiaries, and representative payees to report wages and view, print,\
      \ or save a receipt.  DI self-reporters and their representative payees can\
      \ report wages that occurred within a two-year timeframe from the reporting\
      \ date.  We promote use of our online wage reporting application, myWR, on social\
      \ media with training videos.  From October 2023 through February 2024, we released\
      \ social media posts on Facebook and X sharing a link to our YouTube video to\
      \ help beneficiaries learn why it is important to report wages and the automated\
      \ electronic options for wage reporting.  In February 2024, we issued reminders\
      \ on Social Security TV in field office reception areas to report relationship\
      \ changes as it may affect their Social Security payments.  In August 2024,\
      \ we published a blog about the importance of reporting changes.  The article\
      \ provided examples of life changes that need to be reported to Social Security\
      \ to avoid overpayments.  In July and August 2024, we used our social media\
      \ channels to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly\
      \ reporting changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure\
      \ accurate benefits and avoid overpayments.  We plan to use our social media\
      \ channels to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly\
      \ reporting changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure\
      \ accurate benefits and avoid overpayments.  These posts also inform beneficiaries\
      \ how we are required by law to adjust benefits or recover debts when people\
      \ receive payments they are not entitled to.  \n\nTo address improper payments\
      \ caused by inability to access the data or information needed, we are working\
      \ to simplify our notices and communications.  Some of our notices and communications\
      \ can be complex, lengthy, and difficult to comprehend.  The difficulty can\
      \ sometimes result from the complexity of our programs and legal requirements\
      \ to communicate certain information.  We published several blogs and Social\
      \ Security TV slides in field office waiting areas on the importance of reporting\
      \ relationship changes to us for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance\
      \ beneficiaries to improve the responsiveness of beneficiaries and recipients\
      \ in self-reporting information that impacts benefit payments.  We are currently\
      \ updating the Work Activity Report (SSA-821), to make it more understandable\
      \ and more likely to be completed by applicants and beneficiaries.  We use form\
      \ SSA-821 to collect information about applicant and beneficiary’s work, applicable\
      \ work incentives, and non-work-related pay.  It allows us to make accurate\
      \ decisions as to whether beneficiaries are performing Substantial Gainful Activity.\
      \  In addition, we developed a Work Incentive Notice pilot for increasing completion\
      \ of the Work Activity Report by sending beneficiaries pre-notices that incorporate\
      \ behaviorally informed language to encourage completion of these reports. \
      \ In addition, throughout 2024 we reviewed new and revised agency notices for\
      \ both clear messaging and plain language.  We will need to obtain Office of\
      \ Management and Budget clearance for Form SSA-821 prior to implementation.\
      \  We will sample notices and other communications and assess the quality and\
      \ understandability of our communications.  We will continue to inform and remind\
      \ beneficiaries about reporting responsibilities.  We will also continue to\
      \ review overpayment-related notice review requests (both new and revised language)\
      \ to make sure it is in plain language that people can read and understand."
    Mitigation_Strategy: app2_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Automation
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by failure to access\
      \ data or information needed, we are developing a Consolidated Claims Experience\
      \ (CCE) application.  CCE will be a single-entry point for employees to process\
      \ all agency benefits.  CCE includes eligibility screening, initial claims intake\
      \ processing, and post-entitlement activities.  CCE will automate more computations,\
      \ reduce manual actions, assist in the identification of potential or missed\
      \ entitlements, and include dynamic pathing and policy references within the\
      \ application.  Currently, only Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is available\
      \ in CCE with additional claim types (i.e., Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability\
      \ Insurance and Title 18) to be added in future releases.  In fiscal year (FY)\
      \ 2023, there were several CCE updates in the SSI program to improve CCE software\
      \ performance, correct software problems, and respond to employee feedback.\
      \  In December 2023, CCE Announcements became available.  Now, when updates\
      \ are made within CCE, the technicians receive a brief message the first time\
      \ they access the application describing the changes.  Hyperlinks will be provided\
      \ for the user to access more in-depth information, if desired.  This enhancement\
      \ is designed to assist our busy technicians by providing just-in-time information\
      \ within CCE, so they do not have to pause and locate references related to\
      \ CCE.  In June 2024, we released enhancements to several CCE pages including\
      \ the Special Enrollment Period page and Alien Deportation page to upgrade the\
      \ User Experience Framework.  We also released an enhancement to the Printing\
      \ and Signature page that replaces the existing Printing and Signatures page\
      \ with redesigned Print, Sign, and Document Summary pages.  For upcoming enhancements,\
      \ we are working on a multi-phased implementation for SSI payment continuation,\
      \ which will automate the current legacy process to a modernized input mechanism\
      \ to initiate and remove payment continuation.  This will reduce user error\
      \ and reliance on the regionally developed appeals application.  We are incorporating\
      \ the start date functionality within CCE, which is housed within a regional\
      \ application.  We also plan to release our first retirement benefit application\
      \ within CCE.  We will test it in a few field offices before a national release.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we are developing the Continuing Disability Review (CDR) Product.\
      \  The CDR Product is a project to streamline the continuing disability review\
      \ process, increase efficiencies, and reduce improper payments for work CDRs.\
      \  The multifaceted product is comprised of four separate workstreams:  Work\
      \ CDR, Medical CDR, Electronic Disability Collect System (EDCS), and CDRs Modernization,\
      \ across several component business and systems sponsors.  In FY 2023, CDR product\
      \ released the i454 which allows adult beneficiaries with an online option to\
      \ file the SSA-454 or a Medical CDR Report.  When the customer uses this online\
      \ version, the technician's process is streamlined and allows for quicker processing.\
      \  In FY 2024, we released Multiple Pending Claim functionality to the EDCS\
      \ that will reduce the reliance on paper processing.  We made the eWork system\
      \ Multi-Factor Authentication compliant.  We are currently developing a modernized\
      \ replacement of eWork which will be integrated into the existing EDCS application.\
      \  The eWork replacement will reinforce policy and intuitively drive best practices\
      \ to reduce improper payments.  In FY 2024 we made technical releases for the\
      \ eWork replacement.  We will release the minimum viable product to technicians\
      \ in tandem with retiring eWork by the end of FY 2025.  Subsequent releases\
      \ will be scheduled for FY 2026 if funding permits.  \n\nTo address improper\
      \ payments caused by failure to access data or information needed, we developed\
      \ the Technician Experience Dashboard (TED).  TED is our enterprise customer\
      \ relationship management solution that will provide a single location for information\
      \ about our customers’ interactions with the agency to make it easier for our\
      \ employees to help the public and increases efficiency and accuracy, improving\
      \ the overall customer experience.  In FY 2023, TED added Registration and Customer\
      \ Support, Upload Document workflows, and made general improvements to the application.\
      \  In June 2023, TED became available for use in the Boston region.  In February\
      \ 2024, TED was rolled out nationally to all field offices and workload support\
      \ units.  In March 2024, an additional task called External Tasks became available.\
      \  External Tasks provides technicians the ability to open commonly used applications\
      \ directly from TED.  As of June 2024, there are a total of 24 external applications\
      \ available via TED.  We plan to continue to enhance the customer composite\
      \ by bringing in and displaying more customer information from other systems.\
      \  Releases to enhance existing functionality occur on a quarterly basis.  We\
      \ are also working on plans to expand to other user groups, such as the field\
      \ and regional offices including Appellate Operations.  Integration of the technician\
      \ facing portion of Visitor Intake Process Rewrite is planned for late FY 2025.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we developed processes using UIPath software.  In FY 2021, we pursued\
      \ a contract with UIPath software, to create automated “robotic” programs that\
      \ will perform routine or repetitive tasks.  Robotic Processing Automation (RPA),\
      \ or “BOTs,” are available to Processing Center technicians to assist with processing\
      \ manual awards or post-entitlement actions.  Since January 2021, several BOTs\
      \ have been created and placed into production.  In FY 2024, we added a BOT\
      \ utilized by headquarters analysts, that helped reduce stale Registration,\
      \ Appointment and Services for Representatives (RASR) appointments.  Technicians\
      \ are able to use the BOT to review and terminate stale appointments in the\
      \ RASR database.  Use of BOTs reduces keystrokes and manual coding and detects\
      \ exceptions and alerts before they occur.  In FY 2025, we plan to enhance the\
      \ existing RPA scripts and identify opportunities to automate computations and\
      \ inputs to reduce input errors.  We are making a long-term investment in robotics\
      \ technology using the software to improve business processes and eliminate\
      \ manual actions.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by inability to access\
      \ data or information needed, we developed a tool to submit and sign documents\
      \ electronically.  In July 2023, we released the Upload Documents service into\
      \ production.  In September 2023 we added the electronic signature feature,\
      \ which addresses the Executive Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience\
      \ and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government.  In March 2024, we expanded\
      \ the eSignature/Upload Documents service to all field offices and workload\
      \ support units nationwide.  This release allows customers to access the service\
      \ with fewer customer authentication requirements.  Also, in March 2024, eSignature/Upload\
      \ Documents became available to all Field Offices and Workload Support Units\
      \ Nationwide.  In April 2024 and subsequent months, we began releasing mobile\
      \ friendly web fillable forms in place of PDF forms for customer completion.\
      \  Additionally, in June 2024, we added an automated 10-day follow up reminder\
      \ and confirmation of successful submission emails to enhance communication\
      \ with our customers.  In September 2024, we integrated the service with my\
      \ Social Security and also provide a new option for SMS/text communications.\
      \  We plan to complete the following:  continue to webify forms for a mobile\
      \ friendly experience; continue increasing the number of forms and evidence\
      \ types available; develop a self-service option accessible from my Social Security\
      \ and SSA.gov; continue enhanced customer communications by including Upload\
      \ Document service option in all paper request notices; and expand to 3rd party\
      \ forms, allowing advocates and organizations to provide additional support\
      \ to our mutual customers."
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp1_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Behavioral/Psych Influence
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by inability to\
      \ access the data or information needed, we inform Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability\
      \ Insurance beneficiaries about their reporting responsibilities.  To determine\
      \ whether a beneficiary meets the Marital Status eligibility criteria, we must\
      \ evaluate a beneficiary’s state of being unmarried, married, divorced, or widowed.\
      \  Entitlement to some categories of benefits is impacted by the beneficiary’s\
      \ marital status, so we rely on beneficiaries to report changes in their marital\
      \ status.  Section 826 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 required the Commissioner\
      \ to establish and implement a system permitting Disability Insurance (DI) beneficiaries\
      \ to report their earnings electronically.  Our myWageReport (myWR) online application,\
      \ allows DI beneficiaries, Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients, concurrent\
      \ beneficiaries, and representative payees to report wages and view, print,\
      \ or save a receipt.  DI self-reporters and their representative payees can\
      \ report wages that occurred within a two-year timeframe from the reporting\
      \ date.  We promote use of our online wage reporting application, myWR, on social\
      \ media with training videos.  From October 2023 through February 2024, we released\
      \ social media posts on Facebook and X sharing a link to our YouTube video to\
      \ help beneficiaries learn why it is important to report wages and the automated\
      \ electronic options for wage reporting.  In February 2024, we issued reminders\
      \ on Social Security TV in field office reception areas to report relationship\
      \ changes as it may affect their Social Security payments.  In August 2024,\
      \ we published a blog about the importance of reporting changes.  The article\
      \ provided examples of life changes that need to be reported to Social Security\
      \ to avoid overpayments.  In July and August 2024, we used our social media\
      \ channels to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly\
      \ reporting changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure\
      \ accurate benefits and avoid overpayments.  We plan to use our social media\
      \ channels to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly\
      \ reporting changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure\
      \ accurate benefits and avoid overpayments.  These posts also inform beneficiaries\
      \ how we are required by law to adjust benefits or recover debts when people\
      \ receive payments they are not entitled to.  \n\nTo address improper payments\
      \ caused by inability to access the data or information needed, we are working\
      \ to simplify our notices and communications.  Some of our notices and communications\
      \ can be complex, lengthy, and difficult to comprehend.  The difficulty can\
      \ sometimes result from the complexity of our programs and legal requirements\
      \ to communicate certain information.  We published several blogs and Social\
      \ Security TV slides in field office waiting areas on the importance of reporting\
      \ relationship changes to us for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance\
      \ beneficiaries to improve the responsiveness of beneficiaries and recipients\
      \ in self-reporting information that impacts benefit payments.  We are currently\
      \ updating the Work Activity Report (SSA-821), to make it more understandable\
      \ and more likely to be completed by applicants and beneficiaries.  We use form\
      \ SSA-821 to collect information about applicant and beneficiary’s work, applicable\
      \ work incentives, and non-work-related pay.  It allows us to make accurate\
      \ decisions as to whether beneficiaries are performing Substantial Gainful Activity.\
      \  In addition, we developed a Work Incentive Notice pilot for increasing completion\
      \ of the Work Activity Report by sending beneficiaries pre-notices that incorporate\
      \ behaviorally informed language to encourage completion of these reports. \
      \ In addition, throughout 2024 we reviewed new and revised agency notices for\
      \ both clear messaging and plain language.  We will need to obtain Office of\
      \ Management and Budget clearance for Form SSA-821 prior to implementation.\
      \  We will sample notices and other communications and assess the quality and\
      \ understandability of our communications.  We will continue to inform and remind\
      \ beneficiaries about reporting responsibilities.  We will also continue to\
      \ review overpayment-related notice review requests (both new and revised language)\
      \ to make sure it is in plain language that people can read and understand."
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp2_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Audit
    Completion_Date: FY2025
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we developed a Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP)
      and Government Pension Offset (GPO) Corrective Action Plan.  We developed a
      comprehensive corrective action plan to address multiple underlying causes of
      WEP and GPO improper payments.  We formed a cross-agency work group to review
      all Office of the Inspector General and internal studies to compile a comprehensive
      list of recommended changes in WEP and GPO implementation.  We assessed the
      root causes of improper payments based on these changes and developed policy,
      data, systems, and training solutions in line with each of the root causes of
      improper payments.  We developed a logic model framework to measure the effectiveness
      of completed corrective action that includes establishing benchmarks to evaluate
      the corrective actions, assessing the impact, if possible, and determining whether
      additional mitigation activities are necessary.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, the
      WEP/GPO calculator was added to the redesigned SSA.gov website.  In FY 2023,
      there was an increase in improper payments related to WEP, but overall, since
      FY 2017, there has been a significant reduction in improper payments related
      to WEP and GPO.  In March 2024, we provided detailed information to technicians
      regarding the importance of securing non-covered Government Pension data timely,
      when applicable, in order to calculate the correct benefit amount.  In FY 2024,
      we developed a new policy to address multiple non-covered pensions distributed
      or terminated at different periods of time.  This will provide a consistent
      national policy.  We plan to publish the policy in FY 2025.
    Mitigation_Strategy: app6_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Predictive Analytics
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by inability to\
      \ access data or information needed, we look for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability\
      \ Insurance beneficiaries who are potentially entitled for higher benefits.\
      \  In October 2023, we mailed out more than 15,000 notices to beneficiaries\
      \ receiving spousal benefits and more than 28,000 to surviving spouses who may\
      \ potentially be eligible for higher retirement benefits on their own records.\
      \  In April 2024, we issued a policy reminder to technicians to review cases\
      \ carefully to determine whether retroactivity is applicable for surviving spouse\
      \ benefits.  We also developed a “Potential Entitlements” Tactical Plan to educate\
      \ people who may be eligible for Social Security benefits, particularly Survivors’\
      \ benefits and Supplemental Security Income.  It also includes targeted outreach\
      \ by providing materials to third parties and our regional communications staffs.\
      \  We also conducted a longitudinal study on mailers in fiscal year (FY) 2024.\
      \  The draft is currently in the review/clearance process.  Communications tactics\
      \ from our Tactical Plan will continue through calendar year 2024.  \n\nTo address\
      \ improper payments caused by failure to access data or information needed,\
      \ we look for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) beneficiaries\
      \ who are working and it may affect their eligibility to receive OASDI benefits.\
      \  WorkSmart is a tool that identifies Disability Insurance beneficiaries whose\
      \ earnings put them at risk for being overpaid.  We created the WorkSmart project\
      \ to reduce Improper Payments by alerting cases quickly after the beneficiary\
      \ starts to work.  In FY 2024, WorkSmart continued to alert cases for work Continuing\
      \ Disability Reviews (CDR) based on available earnings data.  WorkSmart will\
      \ use Payroll Information Exchange data when available to alert cases for a\
      \ work CDR.  We will continue to use WorkSmart to reduce overpayments."
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp7_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Training
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we issue reminders and policy clarifications to
      employees, as needed.  In November 2023, we issued a reminder to technicians
      about the importance of inputting Family Max when manually calculating benefits.  In
      March 2024, we updated policy providing detailed information to technicians
      regarding the importance of securing non-covered Government Pension data timely,
      when applicable, in order to calculate the correct benefit amount.  We will
      continue to issue reminders and policy clarifications to employees, as needed.
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp3_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Automation
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by failure to access\
      \ data or information needed, we are developing a Consolidated Claims Experience\
      \ (CCE) application.  CCE will be a single-entry point for employees to process\
      \ all agency benefits.  CCE includes eligibility screening, initial claims intake\
      \ processing, and post-entitlement activities.  CCE will automate more computations,\
      \ reduce manual actions, assist in the identification of potential or missed\
      \ entitlements, and include dynamic pathing and policy references within the\
      \ application.  Currently, only Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is available\
      \ in CCE with additional claim types (i.e., Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability\
      \ Insurance and Title 18) to be added in future releases.  In fiscal year (FY)\
      \ 2023, there were several CCE updates in the SSI program to improve CCE software\
      \ performance, correct software problems, and respond to employee feedback.\
      \  In December 2023, CCE Announcements became available.  Now, when updates\
      \ are made within CCE, the technicians receive a brief message the first time\
      \ they access the application describing the changes.  Hyperlinks will be provided\
      \ for the user to access more in-depth information, if desired.  This enhancement\
      \ is designed to assist our busy technicians by providing just-in-time information\
      \ within CCE, so they do not have to pause and locate references related to\
      \ CCE.  In June 2024, we released enhancements to several CCE pages including\
      \ the Special Enrollment Period page and Alien Deportation page to upgrade the\
      \ User Experience Framework.  We also released an enhancement to the Printing\
      \ and Signature page that replaces the existing Printing and Signatures page\
      \ with redesigned Print, Sign, and Document Summary pages.  For upcoming enhancements,\
      \ we are working on a multi-phased implementation for SSI payment continuation,\
      \ which will automate the current legacy process to a modernized input mechanism\
      \ to initiate and remove payment continuation.  This will reduce user error\
      \ and reliance on the regionally developed appeals application.  We are incorporating\
      \ the start date functionality within CCE, which is housed within a regional\
      \ application.  We also plan to release our first retirement benefit application\
      \ within CCE.  We will test it in a few field offices before a national release.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we are developing the Continuing Disability Review (CDR) Product.\
      \  The CDR Product is a project to streamline the continuing disability review\
      \ process, increase efficiencies, and reduce improper payments for work CDRs.\
      \  The multifaceted product is comprised of four separate workstreams:  Work\
      \ CDR, Medical CDR, Electronic Disability Collect System (EDCS), and CDRs Modernization,\
      \ across several component business and systems sponsors.  In FY 2023, CDR product\
      \ released the i454 which allows adult beneficiaries with an online option to\
      \ file the SSA-454 or a Medical CDR Report.  When the customer uses this online\
      \ version, the technician's process is streamlined and allows for quicker processing.\
      \  In FY 2024, we released Multiple Pending Claim functionality to the EDCS\
      \ that will reduce the reliance on paper processing.  We made the eWork system\
      \ Multi-Factor Authentication compliant.  We are currently developing a modernized\
      \ replacement of eWork which will be integrated into the existing EDCS application.\
      \  The eWork replacement will reinforce policy and intuitively drive best practices\
      \ to reduce improper payments.  In FY 2024 we made technical releases for the\
      \ eWork replacement.  We will release the minimum viable product to technicians\
      \ in tandem with retiring eWork by the end of FY 2025.  Subsequent releases\
      \ will be scheduled for FY 2026 if funding permits.  \n\nTo address improper\
      \ payments caused by failure to access data or information needed, we developed\
      \ the Technician Experience Dashboard (TED).  TED is our enterprise customer\
      \ relationship management solution that will provide a single location for information\
      \ about our customers’ interactions with the agency to make it easier for our\
      \ employees to help the public and increases efficiency and accuracy, improving\
      \ the overall customer experience.  In FY 2023, TED added Registration and Customer\
      \ Support, Upload Document workflows, and made general improvements to the application.\
      \  In June 2023, TED became available for use in the Boston region.  In February\
      \ 2024, TED was rolled out nationally to all field offices and workload support\
      \ units.  In March 2024, an additional task called External Tasks became available.\
      \  External Tasks provides technicians the ability to open commonly used applications\
      \ directly from TED.  As of June 2024, there are a total of 24 external applications\
      \ available via TED.  We plan to continue to enhance the customer composite\
      \ by bringing in and displaying more customer information from other systems.\
      \  Releases to enhance existing functionality occur on a quarterly basis.  We\
      \ are also working on plans to expand to other user groups, such as the field\
      \ and regional offices including Appellate Operations.  Integration of the technician\
      \ facing portion of Visitor Intake Process Rewrite is planned for late FY 2025.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we developed processes using UIPath software.  In FY 2021, we pursued\
      \ a contract with UIPath software, to create automated “robotic” programs that\
      \ will perform routine or repetitive tasks.  Robotic Processing Automation (RPA),\
      \ or “BOTs,” are available to Processing Center technicians to assist with processing\
      \ manual awards or post-entitlement actions.  Since January 2021, several BOTs\
      \ have been created and placed into production.  In FY 2024, we added a BOT\
      \ utilized by headquarters analysts, that helped reduce stale Registration,\
      \ Appointment and Services for Representatives (RASR) appointments.  Technicians\
      \ are able to use the BOT to review and terminate stale appointments in the\
      \ RASR database.  Use of BOTs reduces keystrokes and manual coding and detects\
      \ exceptions and alerts before they occur.  In FY 2025, we plan to enhance the\
      \ existing RPA scripts and identify opportunities to automate computations and\
      \ inputs to reduce input errors.  We are making a long-term investment in robotics\
      \ technology using the software to improve business processes and eliminate\
      \ manual actions.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by inability to access\
      \ data or information needed, we developed a tool to submit and sign documents\
      \ electronically.  In July 2023, we released the Upload Documents service into\
      \ production.  In September 2023 we added the electronic signature feature,\
      \ which addresses the Executive Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience\
      \ and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government.  In March 2024, we expanded\
      \ the eSignature/Upload Documents service to all field offices and workload\
      \ support units nationwide.  This release allows customers to access the service\
      \ with fewer customer authentication requirements.  Also, in March 2024, eSignature/Upload\
      \ Documents became available to all Field Offices and Workload Support Units\
      \ Nationwide.  In April 2024 and subsequent months, we began releasing mobile\
      \ friendly web fillable forms in place of PDF forms for customer completion.\
      \  Additionally, in June 2024, we added an automated 10-day follow up reminder\
      \ and confirmation of successful submission emails to enhance communication\
      \ with our customers.  In September 2024, we integrated the service with my\
      \ Social Security and also provide a new option for SMS/text communications.\
      \  We plan to complete the following:  continue to webify forms for a mobile\
      \ friendly experience; continue increasing the number of forms and evidence\
      \ types available; develop a self-service option accessible from my Social Security\
      \ and SSA.gov; continue enhanced customer communications by including Upload\
      \ Document service option in all paper request notices; and expand to 3rd party\
      \ forms, allowing advocates and organizations to provide additional support\
      \ to our mutual customers."
    Mitigation_Strategy: app1_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Cross Enterprise Sharing
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by inability to\
      \ access the data or information needed, we will pursue new data exchange partners\
      \ from government and private sectors in collaboration with our agency business\
      \ sponsors.  We plan to expand our outreach efforts with the Data Exchange Community\
      \ of Practice (DXCOP) and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to\
      \ engage more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining\
      \ the exchange of data.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, we implemented two new incoming\
      \ data exchanges with State foster care agencies.  These data exchanges assist\
      \ in avoiding improper payments when a child's foster placement has changed.\
      \  For FY 2024, 24 states/entities signed an Information Exchange Agreement\
      \ and are participating, and 10 states signed the Information Exchange Agreement\
      \ of State Foster Data Exchanges.  These data exchanges assist in avoiding improper\
      \ payments when a child's foster placement has changed.  We continue to engage\
      \ State agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  In June and September\
      \ 2024, we held DXCOP meetings.  We continue to engage State agencies for the\
      \ purpose of expanding this exchange.  We plan to expand our outreach efforts\
      \ with the DXCOP and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage\
      \ more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining\
      \ the exchange of data.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure\
      \ to access data or information needed, we are improving our death data processing.\
      \  We collect data from a variety of sources so that we can administer our programs.\
      \  We have a contract with every State Bureau of Vital Statistics (the custodians\
      \ for death records) and with some jurisdictions to provide us death data. \
      \ Since 2002, we worked with States that want and are able to build a streamlined\
      \ death registration process known as Electronic Death Registration (EDR). \
      \ As of January 2022, all 50 States report deaths through the EDR process. \
      \ We plan to continue making progress in centralizing our death inputs, improving\
      \ the quality and processing of death data, and updating historical death records\
      \ in our databases.  In April 2024, for processing death reports, we issued\
      \ a reminder to technicians to the Death Information Processing System for reports\
      \ of death for enumerated individuals.  To improve the completeness of our death\
      \ information, we are in the early stages of contracting with the National Association\
      \ for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems on the acquisition of\
      \ historical State death records.  This effort will increase the accuracy, integrity,\
      \ and completeness of our death data.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused\
      \ by inability to access the data or information needed, and failure to access\
      \ data or information needed, we developed a data exchange for the Federal Employment\
      \ Compensation Act Data.  The Federal Employment Compensation Act (FECA) workers’\
      \ compensation program, which is administered by the Department of Labor (DOL),\
      \ provides coverage to three million Federal and Postal workers.  Receipt of\
      \ FECA benefits can offset Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)\
      \ benefits.  We have agreed with DOL to move forward with our request for DOL\
      \ FECA data.  We are working to finalize the agreement for DOL to provide FECA\
      \ payment data to assist us in our offset requirements.  In December 2023, the\
      \ agency established an eCOMP system Memorandum of Understanding with DOL to\
      \ obtain FECA benefits to allow the agency to offset OASDI benefits and prevent\
      \ or reduce overpayments.  Technicians can complete an ad hoc query in eCOMP\
      \ to obtain FECA data, the FECA payment status, dates, amounts and it is immediately\
      \ available to the technician via the eCOMP portal.  In April 2024, we provided\
      \ reminders on how to process initial claims with workers compensation lump-sum\
      \ settlement allegations.  We expect the exchange to be completed in FY 2025.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or\
      \ information needed, and failure to access data or information needed, and\
      \ to reduce the reliance on self-reporting of wages, we are developing new wage\
      \ reporting tools, such as an automated information exchange with commercial\
      \ payroll data providers authorized by section 824 of the Bipartisan Budget\
      \ Act of 2015, now referred to as the Payroll Information Exchange (PIE).  In\
      \ February 2024, we published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) describing\
      \ the agency’s plans for accessing and using information from payroll data providers\
      \ to reduce improper payments (overpayments and underpayments), which improves\
      \ service to customers.  The public comment period closed on April 15, 2024.\
      \  We are carefully considering the comments as we draft the final rule, which\
      \ is currently planned for publication in winter of FY 2025.  In FY 2024, we\
      \ completed the automated PIE wage reporting notices and created a limited issue\
      \ diary to alert technicians when incoming wage and employment information from\
      \ PIE doesn't automatically post to the SSI record, requiring manual review\
      \ and action.  We plan to implement PIE in the Spring of 2025 through a phased\
      \ approach.  This timeline will ensure compliance with rulemaking requirements\
      \ and allow us to respond to public concerns from the NPRM public comment period."
    Mitigation_Strategy: app5_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Predictive Analytics
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: "To address improper payments caused by inability to\
      \ access data or information needed, we look for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability\
      \ Insurance beneficiaries who are potentially entitled for higher benefits.\
      \  In October 2023, we mailed out more than 15,000 notices to beneficiaries\
      \ receiving spousal benefits and more than 28,000 to surviving spouses who may\
      \ potentially be eligible for higher retirement benefits on their own records.\
      \  In April 2024, we issued a policy reminder to technicians to review cases\
      \ carefully to determine whether retroactivity is applicable for surviving spouse\
      \ benefits.  We also developed a “Potential Entitlements” Tactical Plan to educate\
      \ people who may be eligible for Social Security benefits, particularly Survivors’\
      \ benefits and Supplemental Security Income.  It also includes targeted outreach\
      \ by providing materials to third parties and our regional communications staffs.\
      \  We also conducted a longitudinal study on mailers in fiscal year (FY) 2024.\
      \  The draft is currently in the review/clearance process.  Communications tactics\
      \ from our Tactical Plan will continue through calendar year 2024.  \n\nTo address\
      \ improper payments caused by failure to access data or information needed,\
      \ we look for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) beneficiaries\
      \ who are working and it may affect their eligibility to receive OASDI benefits.\
      \  WorkSmart is a tool that identifies Disability Insurance beneficiaries whose\
      \ earnings put them at risk for being overpaid.  We created the WorkSmart project\
      \ to reduce Improper Payments by alerting cases quickly after the beneficiary\
      \ starts to work.  In FY 2024, WorkSmart continued to alert cases for work Continuing\
      \ Disability Reviews (CDR) based on available earnings data.  WorkSmart will\
      \ use Payroll Information Exchange data when available to alert cases for a\
      \ work CDR.  We will continue to use WorkSmart to reduce overpayments."
    Mitigation_Strategy: app7_1
  Answers:
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '1352425.84505277'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp1
    SortOrder: 1
    Subheading: Annual Outlay Amount
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '4092.67309149'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp27
    SortOrder: 2
    Subheading: Improper Payment Estimate
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.30261719017432032'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp28
    SortOrder: 3
    Subheading: Improper Payment Estimate
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp7
    SortOrder: 4
    Subheading: Unknown Payments
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp24
    SortOrder: 5
    Subheading: Unknown Payments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '4092.67309149'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp30
    SortOrder: 6
    Subheading: Improper Payment and Unknown Payment Estimate
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.30261719017432032'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp29
    SortOrder: 7
    Subheading: Improper Payment and Unknown Payment Estimate
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.4'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp20_1
    SortOrder: 9
    Subheading: Improper Payment and Unknown Payment Reduction Target
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.24099761484614526'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp22
    SortOrder: 10
    Subheading: Overpayments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance overpayments within the agency’s
      control are caused by our failure to access data or information needed.  These
      overpayments occur when we have access to the data or information we need to
      accurately compute the benefit amount, but we failed to use the data or information
      provided to validate the payment accuracy prior to making a payment.  The leading
      cause of the overpayment was our failure to timely update records with reported
      changes or take appropriate action.  An incorrect action could be due to incorrect
      policy interpretation and application, mathematical error, typographical error,
      or delay in input.  To prevent these overpayments from occurring, we provide
      training and reminders for technicians when applicable and automation solutions
      to improve accuracy when possible.
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_1
    SortOrder: 11
    Subheading: Overpayments
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance overpayments outside the
      agency’s control occur when we are unable to access data needed to calculate
      a payment because the beneficiary or a third-party either did not provide the
      requested information or provided inaccurate information necessary to compute
      the accurate benefit amount.  It occurs because of beneficiaries’ or representative
      payees’ failure to report changes.  For this reporting period, the leading cause
      of overpayments outside the agency’s control was primarily our reliance on timely
      self-reporting of employment and wage information.
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp4_1
    SortOrder: 12
    Subheading: Overpayments
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_cop1
    SortOrder: 13
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because the Data/Information
      Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment Does Not Exist
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp3_cop4
    SortOrder: 14
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because the Data/Information
      Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment Does Not Exist
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_cop2
    SortOrder: 15
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of an Inability to Access
      the Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '2408.4379424'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp3_cop5
    SortOrder: 16
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of an Inability to Access
      the Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '850.87608674'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_cop3
    SortOrder: 17
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of a Failure to Access
      Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp3_cop6
    SortOrder: 18
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of a Failure to Access
      Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '833.35906235'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5
    SortOrder: 19
    Subheading: Underpayments
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.06161957532817508'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp23
    SortOrder: 20
    Subheading: Underpayments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5_cup1
    SortOrder: 21
    Subheading: Amount of Underpayments that Occurred Because the Data/Information
      Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment Does Not Exist
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '52.29076042'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5_cup2
    SortOrder: 22
    Subheading: Amount of Underpayments that Occurred Because of an Inability to Access
      the Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '781.06830193'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5_cup3
    SortOrder: 23
    Subheading: Amount of Underpayments that Occurred Because of a Failure to Access
      Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp6
    SortOrder: 24
    Subheading: Technically Improper Payments
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp25
    SortOrder: 25
    Subheading: Technically Improper Payments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'For the root cause of overpayments within the agency’s control due to
      our failure to access data or information needed, our corrective actions and
      strategies fall within several high-level categories such as automation, business
      process improvement (including program and policy simplification), and training
      to improve accuracy.


      For improper payments outside the agency’s control, we are addressing the challenge
      of reliance on self-reporting by promoting timely wage reporting and issuing
      reminders on reporting responsibilities.  We plan to utilize an automated information
      exchange with commercial payroll data providers to reduce the reliance on self-reporting
      of wages.  This exchange is referred to as the Payroll Information Exchange.


      We remain focused on our strategic objectives and agency goals to ensure stewardship
      and improve program integrity by reducing improper payments.  We monitor the
      status of corrective actions through bi-monthly meetings and quarterly senior
      executive meetings.  We evaluated existing initiatives and developed a comprehensive
      approach to identify and support new and planned reduction initiatives that
      target the root causes of leading causes of improper payments.  These efforts
      serve to prioritize and drive business process, policy, and automation improvements.  The
      purpose of this effort is to strategically align agency wide initiatives that
      will have the most significant impact to the detection and prevention of improper
      payments.  By identifying and analyzing the root causes of the improper payments,
      we channel our efforts in the most efficient manner ensuring that we are fiscally
      responsible as we implement a corrective action plan.


      In fiscal year 2024 we completed our annual updates that are part of the monitoring
      and measuring the effectiveness of completed corrective actions on the leading
      causes of improper payments.  We will continue to find opportunities to explore
      cost-effective corrective action plans based on our evaluations.  However, we
      continue to note that the complexity of our Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability
      program makes it extremely difficult to determine the dollar value associated
      with a particular corrective action.'
    Heading: Description of How the Level of Actions Matches the Level of Improper
      Payments
    Key: rnp3
    SortOrder: 37
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: "We are committed to being good stewards of taxpayer dollars and ensuring\
      \ the public has confidence that we manage their tax dollars wisely.  We demonstrate\
      \ a commitment to sound management practices.  To ensure stewardship and the\
      \ efficient administration of our programs, we have established performance\
      \ measures in our Annual Performance Plan for fiscal years (FY) 2023–2024 to\
      \ track our progress.  Under Strategic Objective 3.1 – Improve the Accuracy\
      \ and Administration of our Programs, there are two performance measures directly\
      \ related to reduction of improper payments:\n\n3.1a - Improve the integrity\
      \ of the Supplemental Security Income program by focusing our efforts on reducing\
      \ overpayments \n\n3.1b - Maintain a high payment accuracy rate by reducing\
      \ overpayments, in the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)\
      \ program\n\nUnder our annual Performance Accountability and Communication System,\
      \ all agency managers have a critical element called “Manages Performance.”\
      \  This element includes two performance standards related to preventing and\
      \ reducing improper payments:  establishes and maintains suitable internal controls\
      \ to prevent improper payments; and uses established guidelines to reduce and\
      \ recover improper payments.\n\nWe assess managers throughout the agency on\
      \ these standards each year and hold them accountable for meeting improper payment\
      \ reduction targets.  Each agency component adds expectations that are more\
      \ detailed for their positions describing what is expected for meeting these\
      \ performance standards.\n\nSenior Executive performance plans must clearly\
      \ align with organizational goals and objectives under the Results Driven Critical\
      \ Element.  Performance levels in the performance requirements must reflect\
      \ agency targets.\n\nWe established the Improper Payments Oversight Board (IPOB),\
      \ consisting of senior executive membership, to ensure that we are focusing\
      \ on improper payment prevention, formulating clear and innovative strategies,\
      \ and driving timely results agency-wide.  The Deputy Commissioner of the Office\
      \ of Analytics, Review, and Oversight (OARO) serves as the executive chair for\
      \ the IPOB.  To further our focus on reducing improper payments, in FY 2019,\
      \ we established an Improper Payments Prevention Team now referred to as the\
      \ Improper Payments Prevention Branch, in OARO.  The team works with key agency\
      \ stakeholders to develop Improper Payments Alignment Strategies (IPAS) that\
      \ outline innovative and effective strategies to mitigate the root causes of\
      \ improper payments.  As part of our IPAS, we will evaluate the effectiveness\
      \ of each planned or ongoing mitigation initiative.  Additionally, we will determine\
      \ the most cost-effective strategies to remediate the underlying causes of payment\
      \ errors and monitor, measure, and revise the strategies, as needed.  IPOB is\
      \ responsible for reviewing, approving, and implementing all improper payment\
      \ initiatives.\n\nWe have a strong internal control environment that has always\
      \ included controls over our benefit payment and debt management processes.\
      \  We directly leverage our existing internal control environment and assurance\
      \ processes to provide reasonable assurance that our internal controls over\
      \ improper payments are in place and operating effectively.\n\nAs part of our\
      \ internal control environment, we have a well-established, agency-wide management\
      \ control program as required by the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act.\n\
      \nThe effective internal controls we incorporate into our business processes\
      \ and financial management systems, as well as the program integrity efforts,\
      \ support our Commissioner’s annual assurance statement to the President and\
      \ Congress.\n\nIn April 2019, we established the Enterprise Fraud Risk Management\
      \ (EFRM) program to systematically assess fraud risks across our major programmatic\
      \ and administrative areas.  Through our EFRM program we have conducted multiple\
      \ fraud risk assessments on key areas such as Disability, Electronic Services,\
      \ Administrative Services, and the Representative Payee program.  After each\
      \ fraud risk assessment, our senior executives review each fraud risk and determine\
      \ whether our controls are effective or whether we need to develop additional\
      \ controls to further reduce the risk.  For each risk designated as “reduce”\
      \ by our executives, we develop additional mitigation strategies to further\
      \ prevent or detect the fraud.  The risk response and the designated mitigation\
      \ strategies form the basis of the fraud risk profile for each fraud area.\n\
      \nWe completed a maintenance fraud risk assessment of Agency’s Administrative\
      \ Services during FY 2024 and continued the reassessment of the disability fraud\
      \ risk profile, consistent with the Government Accountability Office guidance,\
      \ to reassess fraud risk profiles on a three-year cycle.  We also finalized\
      \ the Fraud Risk Profiles for the Enumeration program at the end of calendar\
      \ year 2023.\n\nFor recovery of overpayments, effective March 25, 2024, we changed\
      \ existing policy and procedure for recovering OASDI overpayments.  Policy has\
      \ been to default to full benefit withholding.  However, with the change, we\
      \ began applying a default of 10 percent withholding rate, or $10 per month,\
      \ whichever is more, to an overpaid individual.  There will be limited exceptions\
      \ to this change, such as when an overpayment resulted from fraud.\n\nAdditionally,\
      \ when negotiating a rate of overpayment recovery, we traditionally required\
      \ documentation of income and expenses for repayment timeframes that extended\
      \ beyond 36 months.  In February 2024, we changed our policy to extend this\
      \ timeframe to 60 months and reduced the burden on our beneficiaries to provide\
      \ additional financial and resource information."
    Heading: Accountability For Payment Integrity Through Performance Appraisal Criteria
    Key: rnp4
    SortOrder: 38
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'Internal Controls:  We have a strong internal control environment that
      has always included controls over our benefit payment and debt management processes.  Our
      existing internal control environment and assurance processes provide reasonable
      assurance that our internal controls over improper payments are in place and
      operating effectively.


      As part of our internal control environment, we have a well-established, agency-wide
      management control program as required by the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity
      Act.


      We established the Improper Payments Oversight Board, consisting of senior executive
      membership, to ensure that we are focusing on improper payment prevention, formulating
      clear and innovative strategies, and driving timely results agency-wide.


      Human Capital:  Our program integrity work is labor-intensive and dependent
      on having the necessary trained staff to do the work.  For the most part, our
      employees who handle our program integrity work also handle applications for
      benefits and other mission-critical work.  Sustained, sufficient funding is
      critical to maintain a workforce size necessary to balance our service and stewardship
      work.


      Information Systems:  Our staff rely on our information technology (IT) infrastructure
      to serve the public and safeguard our programs.  Our technology modernization
      investments focus on simple, seamless, and secure service by delivering customer-centric
      digital capabilities with human-centered design, business intelligence, and
      mobile accessible platforms.  We plan on continuing to implement new digital
      services that focus on enhancing the customer experience and removing barriers
      to service to meet the needs and preferences of our customers, partners, and
      employees.  We are prioritizing self-service options to improve customer service
      while reducing manual work completed by frontline staff.  Sustained, sufficient
      funding is necessary to continue to modernize our IT.


      Other Infrastructure:  Cybersecurity is vital to protecting the personally identifiable
      information of everyone we serve.  Maintaining the public’s trust in our ability
      to protect sensitive data housed in our systems requires advanced cybersecurity
      controls, constant assessment of the threat landscape, and continual improvements
      and enhancements of our cybersecurity program.  Our cybersecurity program uses
      a risk-based approach to balance protection and productivity and focuses on
      continuous improvement.  We are expanding our cybersecurity program in support
      of Executive Order 14028, Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity, and Office of
      Management and Budget Memorandum 22-09, Moving the U.S. Government Toward Zero
      Trust Cybersecurity Principles.  In addition, we are strengthening our digital
      identity processes to comply with the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic
      Services for Constituents Act.


      Our cybersecurity efforts help us to maintain our vigilance and protect against
      network intrusions and improper access of data by strengthening our defensive
      cyber capabilities, sharing cyber threat information with our Federal and industry
      partners, and moving toward a Zero Trust Architecture that focuses on the secure
      flow of information from the network perimeter across the enterprise.'
    Heading: Program Needs
    Key: rap5
    SortOrder: 39
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: The fiscal year 2025 President’s Budget included resources for internal
      controls to maintain our level of improper payments.  As part of our stewardship
      responsibilities and our efforts to reduce improper payments, we also requested
      $1.903 billion in dedicated funding for program integrity activities.  Many
      of the tools we use, such as our medical Continuing Disability Reviews, work
      Continuing Disability Reviews, and the Cooperative Disability Investigations
      program, save billions of program dollars with a proportionally small investment
      of administrative resources.
    Heading: Program Needs
    Key: rap6
    SortOrder: 40
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  Program: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
  SortOrder: 47
- ActionsTaken:
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Automation
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we are developing a Consolidated Claims Experience
      (CCE) application.  CCE will be a single-entry point for employees to process
      all agency benefits.  CCE includes eligibility screening, initial claims intake
      processing, and post-entitlement activities.  CCE will automate more computations,
      reduce manual actions, assist in the identification of potential or missed entitlements,
      and include dynamic pathing and policy references within the application.  Currently,
      only Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is available in CCE with additional
      claim types (i.e., Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance and Title 18)
      to be added in future releases.  In fiscal year 2023, there were several CCE
      updates in the SSI program to improve CCE software performance, correct software
      problems, and respond to employee feedback.  In December 2023, CCE Announcements
      became available.  Now, when updates are made within CCE, the technicians receive
      a brief message the first time they access the application describing the changes.  Hyperlinks
      will be provided for the user to access more in-depth information, if desired.  This
      enhancement is designed to assist our busy technicians by providing just-in-time
      information within CCE, so they do not have to pause and locate references related
      to CCE.  In June 2024, we released enhancements to several CCE pages including
      the Special Enrollment Period page and Alien Deportation page to upgrade the
      User Experience Framework.  We also released an enhancement to the Printing
      and Signature page that replaces the existing Printing and Signatures page with
      redesigned Print, Sign, and Document Summary pages.  For upcoming enhancements,
      we are working on a multi-phased implementation for SSI payment continuation,
      which will automate the current legacy process to a modernized input mechanism
      to initiate and remove payment continuation.  This will reduce user error and
      reliance on the regionally developed appeals application.  We are incorporating
      the start date functionality within CCE, which is housed within a regional application.  We
      also plan to release our first retirement benefit application within CCE.  We
      will test it in a few field offices before a national release.


      To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we developed the Technician Experience Dashboard (TED).  TED is our
      enterprise customer relationship management solution that will provide a single
      location for information about our customers’ interactions with the agency to
      make it easier for our employees to help the public and increases efficiency
      and accuracy, improving the overall customer experience.  In fiscal year (FY)
      2023, TED added Registration and Customer Support, Upload Document workflows,
      and made general improvements to the application.  In June 2023, TED became
      available for use in the Boston region.  In February 2024, TED was rolled out
      nationally to all field offices and workload support units.  In March 2024,
      an additional task called External Tasks became available.  External Tasks provides
      technicians the ability to open commonly used applications directly from TED.  As
      of June 2024, there are a total of 24 external applications available via TED.  We
      plan to continue to enhance the customer composite by bringing in and displaying
      more customer information from other systems.  Releases to enhance existing
      functionality occur on a quarterly basis.  We are also working on plans to expand
      to other user groups, such as field and regional offices, including Appellate
      Operations.  Integration of the technician facing portion of the Visitor Intake
      Process Rewrite is planned for late FY 2025.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access data or information
      needed, we developed a tool to submit and sign documents electronically.  In
      July 2023, we released the Upload Documents service into production.  In September
      2023 we added the electronic signature feature, which addresses the Executive
      Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild
      Trust in Government.  In March 2024, we expanded the eSignature/Upload Documents
      service to all field offices and workload support units nationwide.  This release
      allows customers to access the service with fewer customer authentication requirements.  Also,
      in March 2024, eSignature/Upload Documents became available to all Field Offices
      and Workload Support Units Nationwide.  In April 2024 and subsequent months,
      we began releasing mobile friendly web fillable forms in place of PDF forms
      for customer completion.  Additionally, in June 2024, we added an automated
      10-day follow up reminder and confirmation of successful submission emails to
      enhance communication with our customers.  In September 2024, we integrated
      the service with my Social Security and also provide a new option for SMS/text
      communications.  We plan to complete the following:  continue to webify forms
      for a mobile friendly experience; continue increasing the number of forms and
      evidence types available; develop a self-service option accessible from my Social
      Security and SSA.gov; continue enhanced customer communications by including
      the Upload Document service option in all paper request notices; and expand
      to 3rd party forms, allowing advocates and organizations to provide additional
      support to our mutual customers.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: app1_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Behavioral/Psych Influence
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed, we inform Supplemental Security Income
      (SSI) recipients and representative payees about their reporting responsibilities
      through various methods:  during interviews, with application and redetermination
      forms, in some award and post-eligibility notices, in check envelope enclosures,
      and in a booklet that accompanies award notices.  Our annual Cost of Living
      Adjustment notices include reminders about reporting changes that could affect
      payments and eligibility.  In September 2013, we implemented an automated SSI
      wage reporting reminder for individuals who sign up to receive a monthly email
      or text message to report wages for the prior month.  We promote use of our
      online wage reporting application, myWageReport (myWR), on social media with
      training videos including information about the importance of creating a my
      Social Security account; how to submit wages using myWR, SSA Mobile Wage Reporting,
      or SSI Telephone Wage Reporting; who can report; and reminders on reporting
      responsibilities.  From October 2023 through February 2024, we published social
      media posts on Facebook and X sharing a link to our YouTube video to help beneficiaries
      learn why it is important to report wages and the automated electronic options
      for wage reporting.  In March 2024, we released a Dear Colleague Letter to advocates
      reminding them about SSI reporting responsibilities and the importance of ensuring
      we have current contact information.  In April 2024, we released a blog that
      explains to SSI recipients the importance of reporting their financial accounts.  The
      blog provides examples of financial accounts and informs the reader about Achieving
      a Better Life Experience accounts.  In July 2024, we published a blog about
      the agency’s commitment to improve timely delivery of payments to SSI recipients
      and our progress addressing underpayments.  In August 2024, we published a blog
      that explains to SSI recipients the importance of reporting life changes to
      Social Security.  The blog provides examples of life changes that need to be
      reported to avoid overpayments, how to report these changes, and where to obtain
      more information.  In July and August of 2024, we used our social media channels
      to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly reporting
      changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure accurate
      benefits and avoid overpayments.  We plan to use our social media channels to
      post reminders for our recipients about the importance of promptly reporting
      changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure accurate
      payments and avoid overpayments.  These posts also inform recipients how we
      are required by law to adjust payments or recover debts when people receive
      payments they are not entitled to.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we are working to simplify our notices and communications.  Some of
      our notices and communications can be complex, lengthy, and difficult to comprehend.  The
      difficulty can sometimes result from the complexity of our programs and legal
      requirements to communicate certain information.  We updated a blog for “Social
      Security Matters” that focuses on the importance of Supplemental Security Income
      recipients reporting their financial accounts and any changes related to financial
      accounts to us.  In an effort to increase responsiveness of beneficiaries and
      recipients in self-reporting information that impacts payments, we used behavioral
      insights methods to improve the clarity and effectiveness of the blog.  Also,
      we are currently updating the Work Activity Report (SSA-821) to make it more
      understandable and more likely to be completed by applicants.  In addition,
      throughout 2024 we reviewed new and revised agency notices for both clear messaging
      and plain language.  We will need to obtain Office of Management and Budget
      clearance for Form SSA-821 prior to implementation.  We will sample notices
      and other communications and assess the quality and understandability of our
      communications.  We will continue to inform and remind recipients about reporting
      responsibilities.  We will also continue to review overpayment-related notice
      review requests (both new and revised language) to make sure it is in plain
      language that people can read and understand.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: app2_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Training
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we released updated guidance.  In June 2022, and
      subsequently in April 2023 and August 2023, we released updated guidance on
      special processing instructions for applying Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
      and resource exclusions to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  In March 2023,
      and subsequently in April 2023, we released updated pandemic related assistance
      that meets the criteria for the disaster assistance exclusion chart.  In April
      2023, we released reminders to ensure that SSI underpayment reviews are documented
      and completed in accordance with policy.  In August 2023, we provided post-pandemic
      transitional instructions for applying income and continued resource exclusions
      to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  The transitional instructions are
      still in place in 2024 until permanent policy instructions are published.  For
      recipients who incurred overpayments during COVID-19, we issued internal guidance
      for technicians reminding them how to adjudicate waiver requests.  We are drafting
      permanent policy instructions to replace the transitional instructions for applying
      income and continued resource exclusions to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  We
      plan to publish the permanent policy instructions in the second quarter of fiscal
      year 2025.
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp3_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Change Process
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access data or information needed, we developed the online protective filing
      tool.  The online protective filing tool is a public-facing web tool to submit
      a request for an appointment to file for benefits and record a protective filing
      date.  The tool prevents underpayments by making it easier for applicants to
      file for benefits.  In March 2024, we changed policy and procedures to streamline
      the recording of protective filing dates.


      To address improper payments caused by data or information needed does not exist,
      inability to access the data or information needed, and failure to access data
      or information needed, we are proposing changes to how in-kind support and maintenance
      (ISM) is calculated.  We are working on three regulatory changes to help simplify
      ISM policies.  Beginning September 30, 2024, we are no longer counting food
      as income when we figure Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments, so that
      food assistance received from others does not impact claimants’ benefit eligibility
      and amounts.  This new rule removes a critical barrier for SSI eligibility due
      to informal food assistance from friends, family, and community networks of
      support.  Also beginning September 30, 2024, the agency expanded its SSI rental
      subsidy policy which due to judicial decision was only in place for SSI applicants
      and recipients residing in certain States.  We now expanded the rental subsidy
      policy for all SSI applicants and recipients which may increase the payment
      amount and allows more people to qualify for critical SSI payments.  Lastly,
      beginning September 30, 2024, we expanded the definition of a public assistance
      household to include households receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
      Program payments and households where at least one household member other than
      the recipient or applicant receives public assistance.  The expanded definition
      allows more people to qualify for SSI, increases some SSI recipients’ payment
      amounts, and reduces reporting burdens for individuals living in public assistance
      households.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we are working to reduce the complexity of our SSI application.  In
      August 2023, the agency reconvened the SSI Simplification Workgroup to address
      concerns regarding the complexity of our paper SSI application form, SSA-8000.  The
      workgroup, consisting of cross-component subject matter experts, is a collaborative
      effort to shorten and simplify the SSI application process in a three-phased
      approach:  Phase I – Focuses on an expansion of the current internet claim (iClaim)
      with added SSI questions; Phase II – Focuses on technician supported modalities,
      which will  encompass adult, aged, child, married, and third-party applications
      through the service delivery channels of in-person, telephone, and forms; and
      Phase III – This will establish an online, mobile-first, and public-facing system
      for the SSI and Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance programs and other
      applications, replicating the telephone, in-person, and paper service delivery
      channels.  Human-centered design testing will be employed to shape the mobile-first
      solution.  We completed the following in fiscal year 2024:  completed development
      of the expansion of the SSI Simplification Phase I initiative, or iSSI process;
      posted to the Federal Register Notice (FRN) and obtained feedback from the public;
      reviewed the FRN comments and incorporated the feedback into our new three-phased
      approach; and reviewed the plan for the new approach with advocates/representatives
      and secured a decision to proceed from the Commissioner.  We plan to implement,
      in late 2024, the expansion of iSSI for SSI disability applicants.  The iSSI
      Release will expand iClaim and introduce as few as 12 user-tested, SSI-specific
      questions across 6 screens, shaping the simplified SSI application to be launched
      in late 2024.  We also plan to complete the following:  remove iClaim exclusions
      to allow online processing of approximately 5000 additional claims; finalize
      training and marketing materials; and complete final testing and prepare for
      a production release of the expanded iSSI.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp4_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Change Process
    Completion_Date: FY2025
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed, we are working to reduce the complexity
      of our Supplemental Security Income (SSI) application.  In August 2023, the
      agency reconvened the SSI Simplification Workgroup to address concerns regarding
      the complexity of our paper SSI application form, SSA-8000.  The workgroup,
      consisting of cross-component subject matter experts, is a collaborative effort
      to shorten and simplify the SSI application process in a three-phased approach:  Phase
      I – Focuses on an expansion of the current internet claim (iClaim) with added
      SSI questions; Phase II – Focuses on technician supported modalities, which
      will encompass adult, aged, child, married, and third-party applications through
      the service delivery channels of in-person, telephone, and forms; and Phase
      III – This will establish an online, mobile-first, and public-facing system
      for the SSI and Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance programs and other
      applications, replicating the telephone, in-person, and paper service delivery
      channels.  Human-centered design testing will be employed to shape the mobile-first
      solution.  We completed the following in fiscal year 2024:  completed development
      of the expansion of the SSI Simplification Phase I initiative, or iSSI process;
      posted to the Federal Register Notice (FRN) and obtained feedback from the public;
      reviewed the FRN comments and incorporated the feedback into our new three-phased
      approach; and reviewed the plan for the new approach with advocates/representatives
      and secured a decision to proceed from the Commissioner.  We plan to implement,
      in late 2024, the expansion of iSSI for SSI disability applicants.  The iSSI
      Release will expand iClaim and introduce as few as 12 user-tested, SSI-specific
      questions across 6 screens, shaping the simplified SSI application to be launched
      in late 2024.  We also plan to complete the following:  remove iClaim exclusions
      to allow online processing of approximately 5000 additional claims; finalize
      training and marketing materials; and complete final testing and prepare for
      a production release of the expanded iSSI.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: app4_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Predictive Analytics
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed, we looked for Old-Age, Survivors, and
      Disability Insurance (OASDI) beneficiaries who are potentially entitled for
      higher Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments than their OASDI benefit.  We
      developed a “Potential Entitlements” Tactical Plan to educate people who may
      be eligible for Social Security benefits, particularly Survivors’ benefits and
      SSI.  It also includes targeted outreach by providing materials to third parties
      and our regional communications staffs.  We also conducted a longitudinal study
      on mailers in fiscal year (FY) 2024.  The draft is currently in the review/clearance
      process.  Communications tactics from our Tactical Plan will continue through
      calendar year 2024.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed and failure to access data or information needed, we conduct non-medical
      Supplemental Security Income (SSI) redeterminations (RZ).  A non-medical SSI
      RZ is a complete review of a recipient’s or couple’s non-medical eligibility
      factors (resources, income, and living arrangements) to determine whether the
      recipient or couple has remained eligible since the time of the previous decision,
      is still eligible for SSI, and has been receiving and will continue to receive
      the correct SSI payment amount.  To ensure the most cost-effective investment
      of agency resources, we use a predictive model to estimate the likelihood and
      magnitude of overpayments to select cases for discretionary RZs.  Other cases
      are selected for RZs outside our modeling process based on selected case characteristics,
      such as manual deeming of income.  The RZ process also selects limited issue
      (LI) reviews, which are reviews of a specific issue or event related to a recipient’s
      or couple’s non-medical eligibility factors to determine whether the recipient
      or couple is still eligible for and receiving the correct SSI payment.  In December
      2023, we issued guidance on achieving FY 2024 RZ and LI workload goals, with
      reminders to field offices about best practices and following the order of priority
      when scheduling RZs and LIs.  In FY 2024, we completed more than 2.5 million
      SSI non-medical RZs and LIs.  We plan to process about 2.5 million SSI RZs and
      LIs in FY 2025.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: app7_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Behavioral/Psych Influence
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed, we inform Supplemental Security Income
      (SSI) recipients and representative payees about their reporting responsibilities
      through various methods:  during interviews, with application and redetermination
      forms, in some award and post-eligibility notices, in check envelope enclosures,
      and in a booklet that accompanies award notices.  Our annual Cost of Living
      Adjustment notices include reminders about reporting changes that could affect
      payments and eligibility.  In September 2013, we implemented an automated SSI
      wage reporting reminder for individuals who sign up to receive a monthly email
      or text message to report wages for the prior month.  We promote use of our
      online wage reporting application, myWageReport (myWR), on social media with
      training videos including information about the importance of creating a my
      Social Security account; how to submit wages using myWR, SSA Mobile Wage Reporting,
      or SSI Telephone Wage Reporting; who can report; and reminders on reporting
      responsibilities.  From October 2023 through February 2024, we published social
      media posts on Facebook and X sharing a link to our YouTube video to help beneficiaries
      learn why it is important to report wages and the automated electronic options
      for wage reporting.  In March 2024, we released a Dear Colleague Letter to advocates
      reminding them about SSI reporting responsibilities and the importance of ensuring
      we have current contact information.  In April 2024, we released a blog that
      explains to SSI recipients the importance of reporting their financial accounts.  The
      blog provides examples of financial accounts and informs the reader about Achieving
      a Better Life Experience accounts.  In July 2024, we published a blog about
      the agency’s commitment to improve timely delivery of payments to SSI recipients
      and our progress addressing underpayments.  In August 2024, we published a blog
      that explains to SSI recipients the importance of reporting life changes to
      Social Security.  The blog provides examples of life changes that need to be
      reported to avoid overpayments, how to report these changes, and where to obtain
      more information.  In July and August of 2024, we used our social media channels
      to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly reporting
      changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure accurate
      benefits and avoid overpayments.  We plan to use our social media channels to
      post reminders for our recipients about the importance of promptly reporting
      changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure accurate
      payments and avoid overpayments.  These posts also inform recipients how we
      are required by law to adjust payments or recover debts when people receive
      payments they are not entitled to.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we are working to simplify our notices and communications.  Some of
      our notices and communications can be complex, lengthy, and difficult to comprehend.  The
      difficulty can sometimes result from the complexity of our programs and legal
      requirements to communicate certain information.  We updated a blog for “Social
      Security Matters” that focuses on the importance of Supplemental Security Income
      recipients reporting their financial accounts and any changes related to financial
      accounts to us.  In an effort to increase responsiveness of beneficiaries and
      recipients in self-reporting information that impacts payments, we used behavioral
      insights methods to improve the clarity and effectiveness of the blog.  Also,
      we are currently updating the Work Activity Report (SSA-821) to make it more
      understandable and more likely to be completed by applicants.  In addition,
      throughout 2024 we reviewed new and revised agency notices for both clear messaging
      and plain language.  We will need to obtain Office of Management and Budget
      clearance for Form SSA-821 prior to implementation.  We will sample notices
      and other communications and assess the quality and understandability of our
      communications.  We will continue to inform and remind recipients about reporting
      responsibilities.  We will also continue to review overpayment-related notice
      review requests (both new and revised language) to make sure it is in plain
      language that people can read and understand.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp2_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Training
    Completion_Date: FY2025
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we released updated guidance.  In June 2022, and
      subsequently in April 2023 and August 2023, we released updated guidance on
      special processing instructions for applying Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
      and resource exclusions to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  In March 2023,
      and subsequently in April 2023, we released updated pandemic related assistance
      that meets the criteria for the disaster assistance exclusion chart.  In April
      2023, we released reminders to ensure that SSI underpayment reviews are documented
      and completed in accordance with policy.  In August 2023, we provided post-pandemic
      transitional instructions for applying income and continued resource exclusions
      to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  The transitional instructions are
      still in place in 2024 until permanent policy instructions are published.  For
      recipients who incurred overpayments during COVID-19, we issued internal guidance
      for technicians reminding them how to adjudicate waiver requests.  We are drafting
      permanent policy instructions to replace the transitional instructions for applying
      income and continued resource exclusions to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  We
      plan to publish the permanent policy instructions in the second quarter of fiscal
      year 2025.
    Mitigation_Strategy: app3_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Automation
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by failure to access
      data or information needed, we are developing a Consolidated Claims Experience
      (CCE) application.  CCE will be a single-entry point for employees to process
      all agency benefits.  CCE includes eligibility screening, initial claims intake
      processing, and post-entitlement activities.  CCE will automate more computations,
      reduce manual actions, assist in the identification of potential or missed entitlements,
      and include dynamic pathing and policy references within the application.  Currently,
      only Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is available in CCE with additional
      claim types (i.e., Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance and Title 18)
      to be added in future releases.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, there were several
      CCE updates in the SSI program to improve CCE software performance, correct
      software problems, and respond to employee feedback.  In December 2023, CCE
      Announcements became available.  Now, when updates are made within CCE, the
      technicians receive a brief message the first time they access the application
      describing the changes.  Hyperlinks will be provided for the user to access
      more in-depth information, if desired.  This enhancement is designed to assist
      our busy technicians by providing just-in-time information within CCE, so they
      do not have to pause and locate references related to CCE.  In June 2024, we
      released enhancements to several CCE pages including the Special Enrollment
      Period page and Alien Deportation page to upgrade the User Experience Framework.  We
      also released an enhancement to the Printing and Signature page that replaces
      the existing Printing and Signatures page with redesigned Print, Sign, and Document
      Summary pages.  For upcoming enhancements, we are working on a multi-phased
      implementation for SSI payment continuation, which will automate the current
      legacy process to a modernized input mechanism to initiate and remove payment
      continuation.  This will reduce user error and reliance on the regionally developed
      appeals application.  We are incorporating the start date functionality within
      CCE, which is housed within a regional application.  We also plan to release
      our first retirement benefit application within CCE.  We will test it in a few
      field offices before a national release.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we developed the SSA Mobile Wage Reporting App.  Supplemental Security
      Income recipients, deemors, and representative payees may use the SSA Mobile
      Wage Reporting App (downloaded at no cost from Google Play and Apple App) to
      report wages and ensure payment accuracy.  We implemented multi-factor authentication
      in September 2023.  In FY 2024, we continued backend technical enhancements
      to the application to offer a more secure method of authentication for application
      users.


      To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we developed the Technician Experience Dashboard (TED).  TED is our
      enterprise customer relationship management solution that will provide a single
      location for information about our customers’ interactions with the agency to
      make it easier for our employees to help the public and increases efficiency
      and accuracy, improving the overall customer experience.  In FY 2023, TED added
      Registration and Customer Support, Upload Document workflows, and made general
      improvements to the application.  In June 2023, TED became available for use
      in the Boston region.  In February 2024, TED was rolled out nationally to all
      field offices and workload support units.  In March 2024, an additional task
      called External Tasks became available.  External Tasks provides technicians
      the ability to open commonly used applications directly from TED.  As of June
      2024, there are a total of 24 external applications available via TED.  We plan
      to continue to enhance the customer composite by bringing in and displaying
      more customer information from other systems.  Releases to enhance existing
      functionality occur on a quarterly basis.  We are also working on plans to expand
      to other user groups, such as field and regional offices, including Appellate
      Operations.  Integration of the technician facing portion of the Visitor Intake
      Process Rewrite is planned for late FY 2025.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access data or information
      needed, we developed a tool to submit and sign documents electronically.  In
      July 2023, we released the Upload Documents service into production.  In September
      2023 we added the electronic signature feature, which addresses the Executive
      Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild
      Trust in Government.  In March 2024, we expanded the eSignature/Upload Documents
      service to all field offices and workload support units nationwide.  This release
      allows customers to access the service with fewer customer authentication requirements.  Also,
      in March 2024, eSignature/Upload Documents became available to all Field Offices
      and Workload Support Units Nationwide.  In April 2024 and subsequent months,
      we began releasing mobile friendly web fillable forms in place of PDF forms
      for customer completion.  Additionally, in June 2024, we added an automated
      10-day follow up reminder and confirmation of successful submission emails to
      enhance communication with our customers.  In September 2024, we integrated
      the service with my Social Security and also provide a new option for SMS/text
      communications.  We plan to complete the following:  continue to webify forms
      for a mobile friendly experience; continue increasing the number of forms and
      evidence types available; develop a self-service option accessible from my Social
      Security and SSA.gov; continue enhanced customer communications by including
      the Upload Document service option in all paper request notices; and expand
      to 3rd party forms, allowing advocates and organizations to provide additional
      support to our mutual customers.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp1_1
  - Action_Taken: Planned
    Action_Type: Cross Enterprise Sharing
    Completion_Date: FY2028+
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed and failure to access data or information
      needed, we developed Access to Financial Institutions (AFI).  The purpose of
      AFI is to identify resources in financial accounts; excess resources are a leading
      cause of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payment errors.  The AFI program
      uses an electronic process with participating financial institutions to verify
      bank account balances and detect undisclosed accounts in up to 10 nearby banks
      based on the residential address.  In March 2023, we released Policy in Focus
      training and issued a frontline broadcast to remind technicians of AFI and SSI
      financial accounts policy.  In August 2023, we published AM-23048 - SSI Financial
      Account Verification Reminders and issued a frontline broadcast to ensure that
      technicians are reviewing the financial account pages in the SSI claims path
      for accuracy before adjudicating an event.  We began analysis on optimizing
      the use of AFI.  We expect to conclude our study on optimal frequency for use
      of AFI and related recommendations in fiscal year 2025.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we will pursue new data exchange partners from government and private
      sectors in collaboration with our agency business sponsors.  We plan to expand
      our outreach efforts with the Data Exchange Community of Practice (DXCOP) and
      the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage more agencies and
      broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining the exchange of
      data.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, we implemented two new incoming data exchanges
      with State foster care agencies.  For FY 2024, 24 states/entities signed an
      Information Exchange Agreement and are participating, and 10 states signed the
      Information Exchange Agreement of State Foster Data Exchanges.  These data exchanges
      assist in avoiding improper payments when a child''s foster placement has changed.  We
      continue to engage State agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  In
      June and September 2024, we held DXCOP meetings.  We continue to engage State
      agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  We plan to expand our
      outreach efforts with the DXCOP and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest,
      to engage more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining
      the exchange of data.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed and failure to access data or information needed, we are improving our
      death data processing.  We collect data from a variety of sources so that we
      can administer our programs.  We have a contract with every State Bureau of
      Vital Statistics (the custodians for death records) and with some jurisdictions
      to provide us death data.  Since 2002, we worked with States that want and are
      able to build a streamlined death registration process known as Electronic Death
      Registration (EDR). As of January 2022, all 50 States report deaths through
      the EDR process.  We plan to continue making progress in centralizing our death
      inputs, improving the quality and processing of death data, and updating historical
      death records in our databases.  In April 2024, for processing death reports,
      we issued a reminder to technicians to the Death Information Processing System
      for reports of death for enumerated individuals.  To improve the completeness
      of our death information, we are in the early stages of contracting with the
      National Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems on
      the acquisition of historical State death records.  This effort will increase
      the accuracy, integrity, and completeness of our death data.


      To address improper payments caused by data or information needed does not exist
      and failure to access data or information needed, we have a National Change
      of Address (NCOA) contract and data exchange agreement with the U.S. Postal
      Service (USPS) for the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
      program.  We are electronically notified when an OASDI beneficiary reports an
      address change to the USPS and in most cases, the new address information automatically
      posts to our records.  We are determining the feasibility of the NCOA expansion
      to the SSI program.  Based on NCOA data analysis, we are updating the existing
      NCOA process before continuing to explore the feasibility of expansion to the
      SSI program.  We are updating a notice to add a reminder informing concurrent
      OASDI and SSI recipients to contact us because we may need additional information
      regarding their living situation.  The notice will have clarified language to
      concurrent OASDI and SSI recipients informing them to contact us to report living
      arrangement changes that may have occurred with the address change received
      through the NCOA process.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, and failure to access data or information needed, and to reduce the
      reliance on self-reporting of wages, we are developing new wage reporting tools,
      such as an automated information exchange with commercial payroll data providers
      authorized by section 824 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, now referred
      to as the Payroll Information Exchange (PIE).  In February 2024, we published
      a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) describing the agency’s plans for accessing
      and using information from payroll data providers to reduce improper payments
      (overpayments and underpayments), which improves service to customers.  The
      public comment period closed on April 15, 2024.  We are carefully considering
      the comments as we draft the final rule, which is currently planned for publication
      in winter of FY 2025.  In fiscal year 2024, we completed the automated PIE wage
      reporting notices and created a limited issue diary to alert technicians when
      incoming wage and employment information from PIE doesn''t automatically post
      to the SSI record, requiring manual review and action.  We plan to implement
      PIE in the Spring of 2025 through a phased approach.  This timeline will ensure
      compliance with rulemaking requirements and allow us to respond to public concerns
      from the NPRM public comment period.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: app5_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Cross Enterprise Sharing
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed and failure to access data or information
      needed, we developed Access to Financial Institutions (AFI).  The purpose of
      AFI is to identify resources in financial accounts; excess resources are a leading
      cause of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payment errors.  The AFI program
      uses an electronic process with participating financial institutions to verify
      bank account balances and detect undisclosed accounts in up to 10 nearby banks
      based on the residential address.  In March 2023, we released Policy in Focus
      training and issued a frontline broadcast to remind technicians of AFI and SSI
      financial accounts policy.  In August 2023, we published AM-23048 - SSI Financial
      Account Verification Reminders and issued a frontline broadcast to ensure that
      technicians are reviewing the financial account pages in the SSI claims path
      for accuracy before adjudicating an event.  We began analysis on optimizing
      the use of AFI.  We expect to conclude our study on optimal frequency for use
      of AFI and related recommendations in fiscal year 2025.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we will pursue new data exchange partners from government and private
      sectors in collaboration with our agency business sponsors.  We plan to expand
      our outreach efforts with the Data Exchange Community of Practice (DXCOP) and
      the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage more agencies and
      broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining the exchange of
      data.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, we implemented two new incoming data exchanges
      with State foster care agencies.  For FY 2024, 24 states/entities signed an
      Information Exchange Agreement and are participating, and 10 states signed the
      Information Exchange Agreement of State Foster Data Exchanges.  These data exchanges
      assist in avoiding improper payments when a child''s foster placement has changed.  We
      continue to engage State agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  In
      June and September 2024, we held DXCOP meetings.  We continue to engage State
      agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  We plan to expand our
      outreach efforts with the DXCOP and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest,
      to engage more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining
      the exchange of data.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed and failure to access data or information needed, we are improving our
      death data processing.  We collect data from a variety of sources so that we
      can administer our programs.  We have a contract with every State Bureau of
      Vital Statistics (the custodians for death records) and with some jurisdictions
      to provide us death data.  Since 2002, we worked with States that want and are
      able to build a streamlined death registration process known as Electronic Death
      Registration (EDR). As of January 2022, all 50 States report deaths through
      the EDR process.  We plan to continue making progress in centralizing our death
      inputs, improving the quality and processing of death data, and updating historical
      death records in our databases.  In April 2024, for processing death reports,
      we issued a reminder to technicians to the Death Information Processing System
      for reports of death for enumerated individuals.  To improve the completeness
      of our death information, we are in the early stages of contracting with the
      National Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems on
      the acquisition of historical State death records.  This effort will increase
      the accuracy, integrity, and completeness of our death data.


      To address improper payments caused by data or information needed does not exist
      and failure to access data or information needed, we have a National Change
      of Address (NCOA) contract and data exchange agreement with the U.S. Postal
      Service (USPS) for the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
      program.  We are electronically notified when an OASDI beneficiary reports an
      address change to the USPS and in most cases, the new address information automatically
      posts to our records.  We are determining the feasibility of the NCOA expansion
      to the SSI program.  Based on NCOA data analysis, we are updating the existing
      NCOA process before continuing to explore the feasibility of expansion to the
      SSI program.  We are updating a notice to add a reminder informing concurrent
      OASDI and SSI recipients to contact us because we may need additional information
      regarding their living situation.  The notice will have clarified language to
      concurrent OASDI and SSI recipients informing them to contact us to report living
      arrangement changes that may have occurred with the address change received
      through the NCOA process.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, and failure to access data or information needed, and to reduce the
      reliance on self-reporting of wages, we are developing new wage reporting tools,
      such as an automated information exchange with commercial payroll data providers
      authorized by section 824 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, now referred
      to as the Payroll Information Exchange (PIE).  In February 2024, we published
      a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) describing the agency’s plans for accessing
      and using information from payroll data providers to reduce improper payments
      (overpayments and underpayments), which improves service to customers.  The
      public comment period closed on April 15, 2024.  We are carefully considering
      the comments as we draft the final rule, which is currently planned for publication
      in winter of FY 2025.  In FY 2024, we completed the automated PIE wage reporting
      notices and created a limited issue diary to alert technicians when incoming
      wage and employment information from PIE doesn''t automatically post to the
      SSI record, requiring manual review and action.  We plan to implement PIE in
      the Spring of 2025 through a phased approach.  This timeline will ensure compliance
      with rulemaking requirements and allow us to respond to public concerns from
      the NPRM public comment period.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp5_1
  - Action_Taken: Completed
    Action_Type: Audit
    Completion_Date: FY2024 Q4
    Description_Action_Taken: To address improper payments caused by data or information
      needed does not exist, inability to access the data or information needed, and
      failure to access data or information needed, we developed a logic model framework
      to measure the effectiveness of completed corrective actions that includes establishing
      benchmarks to evaluate the corrective actions, assessing the impact, if possible,
      and determining whether additional mitigation activities are necessary.  We
      monitor the progress of corrective actions for financial accounts, wages, in-kind
      support and maintenance, death, absence from the United States, and non-home
      real property (NHRP), which are the leading causes of Supplemental Security
      Income improper payments.  In fiscal year (FY) 2022, we completed the evaluation
      for wages and NHRP.  In FY 2023, we completed the evaluation of medical continuing
      disability review cessations and improving death data processing.  In FY 2024,
      we completed the evaluation of completed actions on financial accounts and in-kind
      support and maintenance.
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp6_1
  - Action_Taken: Not Completed
    Action_Type: Predictive Analytics
    Completion_Date: The corrective action was not fully completed this reporting
      period
    Description_Action_Taken: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to
      access the data or information needed, we looked for Old-Age, Survivors, and
      Disability Insurance (OASDI) beneficiaries who are potentially entitled for
      higher Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments than their OASDI benefit.  We
      developed a “Potential Entitlements” Tactical Plan to educate people who may
      be eligible for Social Security benefits, particularly Survivors’ benefits and
      SSI.  It also includes targeted outreach by providing materials to third parties
      and our regional communications staffs.  We also conducted a longitudinal study
      on mailers in fiscal year (FY) 2024.  The draft is currently in the review/clearance
      process.  Communications tactics from our Tactical Plan will continue through
      calendar year 2024.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed and failure to access data or information needed, we conduct non-medical
      Supplemental Security Income (SSI) redeterminations (RZ).  A non-medical SSI
      RZ is a complete review of a recipient’s or couple’s non-medical eligibility
      factors (resources, income, and living arrangements) to determine whether the
      recipient or couple has remained eligible since the time of the previous decision,
      is still eligible for SSI, and has been receiving and will continue to receive
      the correct SSI payment amount.  To ensure the most cost-effective investment
      of agency resources, we use a predictive model to estimate the likelihood and
      magnitude of overpayments to select cases for discretionary RZs.  Other cases
      are selected for RZs outside our modeling process based on selected case characteristics,
      such as manual deeming of income.  The RZ process also selects limited issue
      (LI) reviews, which are reviews of a specific issue or event related to a recipient’s
      or couple’s non-medical eligibility factors to determine whether the recipient
      or couple is still eligible for and receiving the correct SSI payment.  In December
      2023, we issued guidance on achieving FY 2024 RZ and LI workload goals, with
      reminders to field offices about best practices and following the order of priority
      when scheduling RZs and LIs.  In FY 2024, we completed more than 2.5 million
      SSI non-medical RZs and LIs.  We plan to process about 2.5 million SSI RZs and
      LIs in FY 2025.'
    Mitigation_Strategy: atp7_1
  Answers:
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '61048.74589118'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp1
    SortOrder: 1
    Subheading: Annual Outlay Amount
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '6482.8417064899995'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp27
    SortOrder: 2
    Subheading: Improper Payment Estimate
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '10.619123475600514'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp28
    SortOrder: 3
    Subheading: Improper Payment Estimate
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp7
    SortOrder: 4
    Subheading: Unknown Payments
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp24
    SortOrder: 5
    Subheading: Unknown Payments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '6482.8417064899995'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp30
    SortOrder: 6
    Subheading: Improper Payment and Unknown Payment Estimate
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '10.619123475600514'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp29
    SortOrder: 7
    Subheading: Improper Payment and Unknown Payment Estimate
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '7.2'
    Heading: Improper Payment & Unknown Payment Estimates and Reduction Target
    Key: cyp20_1
    SortOrder: 9
    Subheading: Improper Payment and Unknown Payment Reduction Target
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '9.1811396855242791'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp22
    SortOrder: 10
    Subheading: Overpayments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: Supplemental Security Income overpayments within the agency’s control
      are caused by our failure to access data or information needed.  These overpayments
      occur when the agency was aware of information that caused an overpayment but
      failed to take action or took incorrect action when a recipient or a third party
      provided requested information necessary to compute the accurate payment amount.  An
      incorrect action could be due to a delay in input, mathematical error, typographical
      error, or incorrect policy interpretation and application.  Failure to take
      action could occur when a recipient or third-party reports a change and we fail
      to make the change.  To prevent these overpayments from occurring, we provide
      training and reminders for technicians when applicable and automation solutions
      to improve accuracy when possible.
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_1
    SortOrder: 11
    Subheading: Overpayments
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'Supplemental Security Income (SSI) overpayments outside the agency’s
      control occur when the data or information needed does not exist or because
      of our inability to access data or information needed.  For the root cause data
      or information needed does not exist, overpayments occur because there is no
      database or dataset that currently exists where we can check eligibility prior
      to making the payment.  For example, the law requires us to evaluate an individual’s
      income, which includes support and maintenance provided in kind.  This type
      of income is difficult to accurately value because it can fluctuate each month
      as household expenses, composition, and the type of assistance provided may
      change.  Additionally, there is no database or data source we can use to verify
      these factors.  We rely on recipients to report changes in household expenses,
      composition, and contributions accurately and timely.  However, as of September
      30, 2024, we are no longer counting food as income when we figure SSI payments
      and we have expanded the rental subsidy policy.  Additionally, we have expanded
      the definition of a public assistance household to include households receiving
      Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program payments and households where at least
      one household member other than the recipient or applicant receives public assistance.  These
      three updates are part of SSI regulation simplification.


      For the root cause inability to access data, overpayments occur when recipients
      (or their representative payees on their behalf) fail to timely report changes
      in any of their eligibility factors (e.g., an increase of their resources or
      a change in their wages).  Failure to report changes is the primary cause of
      both overpayments and underpayments.  Although we explicitly inform all individuals
      of their reporting requirements during the application process and within every
      award letter, pamphlets periodically sent to recipients, and standard language
      in most official agency correspondence, recipients and representative payees
      may fail to report or may not report changes in time to prevent an improper
      payment.


      SSI is a means-tested program for individuals with limited income and resources
      who are blind, disabled, or aged.  Administering the SSI program is complicated
      by the statutory requirement to determine SSI eligibility and calculate SSI
      payments monthly.  We generally make SSI payments on the first day of the month
      for eligibility in that month.  Many factors influence SSI payment accuracy.  Even
      if a payment was correct when paid, subsequent changes in that month can affect
      the payment due, resulting in either an overpayment or underpayment.  Thus,
      the program requirements themselves sometimes make improper payments inevitable.  We
      remain committed to simplifying the SSI program, and we are exploring ways to
      do this in an equitable manner.'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp4_1
    SortOrder: 12
    Subheading: Overpayments
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_cop1
    SortOrder: 13
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because the Data/Information
      Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment Does Not Exist
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '463.8180467'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp3_cop4
    SortOrder: 14
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because the Data/Information
      Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment Does Not Exist
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_cop2
    SortOrder: 15
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of an Inability to Access
      the Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '4794.46047314'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp3_cop5
    SortOrder: 16
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of an Inability to Access
      the Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '346.69211669'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp2_cop3
    SortOrder: 17
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of a Failure to Access
      Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp3_cop6
    SortOrder: 18
    Subheading: Amount of Overpayments that Occurred Because of a Failure to Access
      Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '877.87106996'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5
    SortOrder: 19
    Subheading: Underpayments
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '1.4379837900762351'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp23
    SortOrder: 20
    Subheading: Underpayments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '306.64264576'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5_cup1
    SortOrder: 21
    Subheading: Amount of Underpayments that Occurred Because the Data/Information
      Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment Does Not Exist
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '388.44075916'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5_cup2
    SortOrder: 22
    Subheading: Amount of Underpayments that Occurred Because of an Inability to Access
      the Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '182.78766504'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp5_cup3
    SortOrder: 23
    Subheading: Amount of Underpayments that Occurred Because of a Failure to Access
      Data/Information Needed to Validate Payment Accuracy Prior to Making a Payment
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp6
    SortOrder: 24
    Subheading: Technically Improper Payments
    Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: '0.0'
    Heading: Causes of Improper Payments
    Key: cyp25
    SortOrder: 25
    Subheading: Technically Improper Payments
    Type: PERCENTAGE
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'For the root cause data or information needed does not exist, overpayments
      occur because there is no database or dataset that currently exists where we
      can check eligibility prior to making the payment.  For example, the law requires
      us to evaluate an individual’s income, which includes support and maintenance
      provided in kind.  This type of income is difficult to accurately value because
      it can fluctuate each month as household expenses, composition, and the type
      of assistance provided may change.  Additionally, there is no database or data
      source we can use to verify these factors.  We rely on recipients to report
      changes in household expenses, composition, and contributions accurately and
      timely.  However, as of September 30, 2024, we are no longer counting food as
      income when we figure Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments, and we expanded
      the rental subsidy policy which may increase the amount some people are eligible
      to receive.  Additionally, we expanded the definition of a public assistance
      household to include households receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
      Program payments and households where at least one household member other than
      the recipient or applicant receives public assistance.  These three updates
      are part of SSI regulation simplification.


      For the root cause inability to access data, overpayments occur when recipients
      (or their representative payees on their behalf) fail to timely report changes
      in any of their eligibility factors (e.g., an increase of their resources or
      a change in their wages).  Failure to report changes is the primary cause of
      both overpayments and underpayments.


      For the root cause of overpayments within the agency’s control due to our failure
      to access data, our corrective actions and strategies fall within several high-level
      categories such as automation, business process improvement (including program
      and policy simplification), and training to improve accuracy.


      We remain focused on our strategic objectives and agency goals to ensure stewardship
      and improve program integrity by reducing improper payments.  We monitor the
      status of corrective actions through bi-monthly meetings and quarterly senior
      executive meetings.  We evaluated existing initiatives and developed a comprehensive
      approach to identify and support new and planned reduction initiatives that
      target the root causes of leading causes of improper payments.  These efforts
      serve to prioritize and drive business process, policy, and automation improvements.  The
      purpose of this effort is to strategically align agency wide initiatives that
      will have the most significant impact on the detection and prevention of improper
      payments.  By identifying and analyzing the root causes of the improper payments,
      we channel our efforts in the most efficient manner ensuring that we are fiscally
      responsible as we implement a corrective action plan.


      In fiscal year (FY) 2024, we completed evaluations on two of our Improper Payments
      Alignment Strategies.  Additionally, in FY 2024, we completed our annual updates
      that are part of monitoring and measuring the effectiveness of completed corrective
      actions on the leading causes in improper payments.  We will continue to find
      opportunities to explore cost-effective corrective action plans based on our
      evaluations.  However, we continue to note that the complexity of our SSI program
      makes it extremely difficult to determine the dollar value associated with a
      particular corrective action.

      '
    Heading: Description of How the Level of Actions Matches the Level of Improper
      Payments
    Key: rnp3
    SortOrder: 37
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: "We are committed to being good stewards of taxpayer dollars and ensuring\
      \ the public has confidence that we manage their tax dollars wisely.  We demonstrate\
      \ a commitment to sound management practices.  To ensure stewardship and the\
      \ efficient administration of our programs, we have established performance\
      \ measures in our Annual Performance Plan for fiscal years (FY) 2023–2024 to\
      \ track our progress.  Under Strategic Objective 3.1 – Improve the Accuracy\
      \ and Administration of our Programs, there are two performance measures directly\
      \ related to reduction of improper payments:  \n\n3.1a - Improve the integrity\
      \ of the Supplemental Security Income program by focusing our efforts on reducing\
      \ overpayments.  \n\n3.1b - Maintain a high payment accuracy rate by reducing\
      \ overpayments, in the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)\
      \ program.\n\nUnder our annual Performance Accountability and Communication\
      \ System, all agency managers have a critical element called “Manages Performance.”\
      \  This element includes two performance standards related to preventing and\
      \ reducing improper payments:  establishes and maintains suitable internal controls\
      \ to prevent improper payments; and uses established guidelines to reduce and\
      \ recover improper payments.\n\nWe assess managers throughout the agency on\
      \ these standards each year and hold them accountable for meeting improper payment\
      \ reduction targets.  Each agency component adds expectations that are more\
      \ detailed for their positions describing what is expected for meeting these\
      \ performance standards.\n\nSenior Executive performance plans must clearly\
      \ align with organizational goals and objectives under the Results Driven Critical\
      \ Element.  Performance levels in the performance requirements must reflect\
      \ agency targets.\n\nWe established the Improper Payments Oversight Board (IPOB),\
      \ consisting of senior executive membership, to ensure that we are focusing\
      \ on improper payment prevention, formulating clear and innovative strategies,\
      \ and driving timely results agency-wide.  The Deputy Commissioner of the Office\
      \ of Analytics, Review, and Oversight (OARO) serves as the executive chair for\
      \ the IPOB.  To further our focus on reducing improper payments, in FY 2019,\
      \ we established an Improper Payments Prevention Team now referred to as the\
      \ Improper Payments Prevention Branch, in OARO.  The team works with key agency\
      \ stakeholders to develop Improper Payments Alignment Strategies (IPAS) that\
      \ outline innovative and effective strategies to mitigate the root causes of\
      \ improper payments.  As part of our IPAS, we will evaluate the effectiveness\
      \ of each planned or ongoing mitigation initiative.  Additionally, we will determine\
      \ the most cost-effective strategies to remediate the underlying causes of payment\
      \ errors and monitor, measure, and revise the strategies, as needed.  IPOB is\
      \ responsible for reviewing, approving, and implementing all improper payment\
      \ initiatives.\n\nWe have a strong internal control environment that has always\
      \ included controls over our benefit payment and debt management processes.\
      \  We directly leverage our existing internal control environment and assurance\
      \ processes to provide reasonable assurance that our internal controls over\
      \ improper payments are in place and operating effectively.  \n\nAs part of\
      \ our internal control environment, we have a well-established, agency-wide\
      \ management control program as required by the Federal Managers’ Financial\
      \ Integrity Act.  \n\nThe effective internal controls we incorporate into our\
      \ business processes and financial management systems, as well as the program\
      \ integrity efforts, support our Commissioner’s annual assurance statement to\
      \ the President and Congress.\n\nIn April 2019, we established the Enterprise\
      \ Fraud Risk Management (EFRM) program to systematically assess fraud risks\
      \ across our major programmatic and administrative areas.  Through our EFRM\
      \ program we have conducted multiple fraud risk assessments on key areas such\
      \ as Disability, Electronic Services, Administrative Services, and the Representative\
      \ Payee program.  After each fraud risk assessment, our senior executives review\
      \ each fraud risk and determine whether our controls are effective or whether\
      \ we need to develop additional controls to further reduce the risk.  For each\
      \ risk designated as “reduce” by our executives, we develop additional mitigation\
      \ strategies to further prevent or detect the fraud.  The risk response and\
      \ the designated mitigation strategies form the basis of the fraud risk profile\
      \ for each fraud area.\n\nWe completed a maintenance fraud risk assessment of\
      \ the Agency’s Administrative Services during FY 2024 and continued the reassessment\
      \ of the disability fraud risk profile, consistent with the Government Accountability\
      \ Office guidance, to reassess fraud risk profiles on a three-year cycle.  We\
      \ also finalized the Fraud Risk Profiles for the Enumeration program at the\
      \ end of calendar year 2023.\n\nFor recovery of overpayments, when negotiating\
      \ a rate of overpayment recovery, we attempted to recover within 36 months before\
      \ requiring income and expense documentation.  In February 2024, we changed\
      \ our policy to extend this timeframe to 60 months and reduced the burden on\
      \ our beneficiaries to provide additional financial and resource information.\n"
    Heading: Accountability For Payment Integrity Through Performance Appraisal Criteria
    Key: rnp4
    SortOrder: 38
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'Internal Controls:  We have a strong internal control environment that
      has always included controls over our benefit payment and debt management processes.  Our
      existing internal control environment and assurance processes provide reasonable
      assurance that our internal controls over improper payments are in place and
      operating effectively.


      As part of our internal control environment, we have a well-established, agency-wide
      management control program as required by the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity
      Act.


      We established the Improper Payments Oversight Board, consisting of senior executive
      membership, to ensure that we are focusing on improper payment prevention, formulating
      clear and innovative strategies, and driving timely results agency-wide.


      Human Capital:  Our program integrity work is labor-intensive and dependent
      on having the necessary trained staff to do the work.  For the most part, our
      employees who handle our program integrity work also handle applications for
      benefits and other mission-critical work.  Sustained, sufficient funding is
      critical to maintain a workforce size necessary to balance our service and stewardship
      work.


      Information Systems:  Our staff rely on our information technology (IT) infrastructure
      to serve the public and safeguard our programs.  Our technology modernization
      investments focus on simple, seamless, and secure service by delivering customer-centric
      digital capabilities with human-centered design, business intelligence, and
      mobile accessible platforms.  We plan on continuing to implement new digital
      services that focus on enhancing the customer experience and removing barriers
      to service to meet the needs and preferences of our customers, partners, and
      employees.  We are prioritizing self-service options to improve customer service
      while reducing manual work completed by frontline staff.  Sustained, sufficient
      funding is necessary to continue to modernize our IT.


      Other Infrastructure:  Cybersecurity is vital to protecting the personally identifiable
      information of everyone we serve.  Maintaining the public’s trust in our ability
      to protect sensitive data housed in our systems requires advanced cybersecurity
      controls, constant assessment of the threat landscape, and continual improvements
      and enhancements of our cybersecurity program.  Our cybersecurity program uses
      a risk-based approach to balance protection and productivity and focuses on
      continuous improvement.  We are expanding our cybersecurity program in support
      of Executive Order 14028, Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity, and Office of
      Management and Budget Memorandum 22-09, Moving the U.S. Government Toward Zero
      Trust Cybersecurity Principles.  In addition, we are strengthening our digital
      identity processes to comply with the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic
      Services for Constituents Act.


      Our cybersecurity efforts help us to maintain our vigilance and protect against
      network intrusions and improper access of data by strengthening our defensive
      cyber capabilities, sharing cyber threat information with our Federal and industry
      partners, and moving toward a Zero Trust Architecture that focuses on the secure
      flow of information from the network perimeter across the enterprise.'
    Heading: Program Needs
    Key: rap5
    SortOrder: 39
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: The fiscal year 2025 President’s Budget included resources for internal
      controls to maintain our level of improper payments.  As part of our stewardship
      responsibilities and our efforts to reduce improper payments, we also requested
      $1.903 billion in dedicated funding for program integrity activities.  Many
      of the tools we use, such as our medical Continuing Disability Reviews, Supplemental
      Security Income redeterminations, and the Cooperative Disability Investigations
      program, save billions of program dollars with a proportionally small investment
      of administrative resources.
    Heading: Program Needs
    Key: rap6
    SortOrder: 40
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  Program: Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
  SortOrder: 48
Report_Id: '4'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: (d) REPORTS ON ACTIONS TO REDUCE IMPROPER PAYMENTS.—(For each program that
    is susceptible to significant improper payments),...the head of the executive
    agency shall provide...a report on what actions the executive agency is taking
    to reduce improper payments, including—
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 1
  Text: (1) a description of the causes of the improper payments, actions planned
    or taken to correct those causes, and the planned or actual completion date of
    the actions taken to address those causes ;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (2) in order to reduce improper payments to a level below which further expenditures
    to reduce improper payments would cost more than the amount those expenditures
    would save in prevented or recovered improper payments, a statement of whether
    the ... agency has what is  needed with respect to—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 2
  Text: (A) internal controls;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 2
  Text: (B) human capital; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 2
  Text: '(C) information systems and other infrastructure; '
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (3) if the executive agency does not have sufficient resources to establish
    and maintain effective internal controls (to reduce improper payments to a level
    below which further expenditures to reduce improper payments would cost more than
    the amount those expenditures would save in prevented or recovered improper payments),
    a description of the resources...requested in the budget submission... to establish
    and maintain those internal controls ;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (4) program-specific ...improper payments reduction targets...;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (5) a description of the steps ...taken to ensure that ...agency managers,
    programs, and, where appropriate, States and local governments are held accountable
    through annual performance appraisal criteria for—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 2
  Text: (A) meeting applicable improper payments reduction targets; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 2
  Text: (B) establishing and maintaining sufficient internal controls, including an
    appropriate control environment, that effectively—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 3
  Text: (i) prevent improper payments from being made; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 3
  Text: (ii) promptly detect and recover improper payments that are made; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 2
  Text: (6) a description of how the level of planned or completed actions ...to address
    the causes of the improper payments matches the level of improper payments, including
    a break-down by category of improper payment and specific timelines for completion
    of those actions.
  Type: REGULAR
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2024_SSA_4
title: Agency Actions to Reduce Improper Payments Report
---
