---
Agency: SSA
Agency_Name: Social Security Administration
Fiscal_Year: 2024
Page_Name: 2024_SSA_2
ProgramSurveyData:
- Answers:
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer:
    - Training
    - Predictive Analytics
    - Cross Enterprise Sharing
    - Audit
    - Automation
    - Behavioral/Psych Influence
    Heading: Type(s) of Corrective Actions Planned to Prevent Future Improper Payments
      (by payment type)
    Key: cyp5_app1_8
    SortOrder: 1
    Subheading: Underpayments
    Type: MULTISELECT_TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: "To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we are developing a Consolidated Claims Experience (CCE) application.\
      \  CCE will be a single-entry point for employees to process all agency benefits.\
      \  CCE includes eligibility screening, initial claims intake processing, and\
      \ post-entitlement activities.  CCE will automate more computations, reduce\
      \ manual actions, assist in the identification of potential or missed entitlements,\
      \ and include dynamic pathing and policy references within the application.\
      \  Currently, only Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is available in CCE with\
      \ additional claim types (i.e., Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance\
      \ and Title 18) to be added in future releases.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, there\
      \ were several CCE updates in the SSI program to improve CCE software performance,\
      \ correct software problems, and respond to employee feedback.  In December\
      \ 2023, CCE Announcements became available.  Now, when updates are made within\
      \ CCE, the technicians receive a brief message the first time they access the\
      \ application describing the changes.  Hyperlinks will be provided for the user\
      \ to access more in-depth information, if desired.  This enhancement is designed\
      \ to assist our busy technicians by providing just-in-time information within\
      \ CCE, so they do not have to pause and locate references related to CCE.  In\
      \ June 2024, we released enhancements to several CCE pages including the Special\
      \ Enrollment Period page and Alien Deportation page to upgrade the User Experience\
      \ Framework.  We also released an enhancement to the Printing and Signature\
      \ page that replaces the existing Printing and Signatures page with redesigned\
      \ Print, Sign, and Document Summary pages.  For upcoming enhancements, we are\
      \ working on a multi-phased implementation for SSI payment continuation, which\
      \ will automate the current legacy process to a modernized input mechanism to\
      \ initiate and remove payment continuation.  This will reduce user error and\
      \ reliance on the regionally developed appeals application.  We are incorporating\
      \ the start date functionality within CCE, which is housed within a regional\
      \ application.  We also plan to release our first retirement benefit application\
      \ within CCE.  We will test it in a few field offices before a national release.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we are developing the Continuing Disability Review (CDR) Product.\
      \  The CDR Product is a project to streamline the continuing disability review\
      \ process, increase efficiencies, and reduce improper payments for work CDRs.\
      \  The multifaceted product is comprised of four separate workstreams:  Work\
      \ CDR, Medical CDR, Electronic Disability Collect System (EDCS), and CDRs Modernization,\
      \ across several component business and systems sponsors.  In FY 2023, CDR product\
      \ released the i454 which allows adult beneficiaries with an online option to\
      \ file the SSA-454 or a Medical CDR Report.  When the customer uses this online\
      \ version, the technician's process is streamlined and allows for quicker processing.\
      \  In FY 2024, we released Multiple Pending Claim functionality to the EDCS\
      \ that will reduce the reliance on paper processing.  We made the eWork system\
      \ Multi-Factor Authentication compliant.  We are currently developing a modernized\
      \ replacement of eWork which will be integrated into the existing EDCS application.\
      \  The eWork replacement will reinforce policy and intuitively drive best practices\
      \ to reduce improper payments.  In FY 2024 we made technical releases for the\
      \ eWork replacement.  We will release the minimum viable product to technicians\
      \ in tandem with retiring eWork by the end of FY 2025.  Subsequent releases\
      \ will be scheduled for FY 2026 if funding permits.  \n\nTo address improper\
      \ payments caused by failure to access data or information needed, we developed\
      \ the Technician Experience Dashboard (TED).  TED is our enterprise customer\
      \ relationship management solution that will provide a single location for information\
      \ about our customers’ interactions with the agency to make it easier for our\
      \ employees to help the public and increases efficiency and accuracy, improving\
      \ the overall customer experience.  In FY 2023, TED added Registration and Customer\
      \ Support, Upload Document workflows, and made general improvements to the application.\
      \  In June 2023, TED became available for use in the Boston region.  In February\
      \ 2024, TED was rolled out nationally to all field offices and workload support\
      \ units.  In March 2024, an additional task called External Tasks became available.\
      \  External Tasks provides technicians the ability to open commonly used applications\
      \ directly from TED.  As of June 2024, there are a total of 24 external applications\
      \ available via TED.  We plan to continue to enhance the customer composite\
      \ by bringing in and displaying more customer information from other systems.\
      \  Releases to enhance existing functionality occur on a quarterly basis.  We\
      \ are also working on plans to expand to other user groups, such as the field\
      \ and regional offices including Appellate Operations.  Integration of the technician\
      \ facing portion of Visitor Intake Process Rewrite is planned for late FY 2025.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information\
      \ needed, we developed processes using UIPath software.  In FY 2021, we pursued\
      \ a contract with UIPath software, to create automated “robotic” programs that\
      \ will perform routine or repetitive tasks.  Robotic Processing Automation (RPA),\
      \ or “BOTs,” are available to Processing Center technicians to assist with processing\
      \ manual awards or post-entitlement actions.  Since January 2021, several BOTs\
      \ have been created and placed into production.  In FY 2024, we added a BOT\
      \ utilized by headquarters analysts, that helped reduce stale Registration,\
      \ Appointment and Services for Representatives (RASR) appointments.  Technicians\
      \ are able to use the BOT to review and terminate stale appointments in the\
      \ RASR database.  Use of BOTs reduces keystrokes and manual coding and detects\
      \ exceptions and alerts before they occur.  In FY 2025, we plan to enhance the\
      \ existing RPA scripts and identify opportunities to automate computations and\
      \ inputs to reduce input errors.  We are making a long-term investment in robotics\
      \ technology using the software to improve business processes and eliminate\
      \ manual actions.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by inability to access\
      \ data or information needed, we developed a tool to submit and sign documents\
      \ electronically.  In July 2023, we released the Upload Documents service into\
      \ production.  In September 2023 we added the electronic signature feature,\
      \ which addresses the Executive Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience\
      \ and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government.  In March 2024, we expanded\
      \ the eSignature/Upload Documents service to all field offices and workload\
      \ support units nationwide.  This release allows customers to access the service\
      \ with fewer customer authentication requirements.  Also, in March 2024, eSignature/Upload\
      \ Documents became available to all Field Offices and Workload Support Units\
      \ Nationwide.  In April 2024 and subsequent months, we began releasing mobile\
      \ friendly web fillable forms in place of PDF forms for customer completion.\
      \  Additionally, in June 2024, we added an automated 10-day follow up reminder\
      \ and confirmation of successful submission emails to enhance communication\
      \ with our customers.  In September 2024, we integrated the service with my\
      \ Social Security and also provide a new option for SMS/text communications.\
      \  We plan to complete the following:  continue to webify forms for a mobile\
      \ friendly experience; continue increasing the number of forms and evidence\
      \ types available; develop a self-service option accessible from my Social Security\
      \ and SSA.gov; continue enhanced customer communications by including Upload\
      \ Document service option in all paper request notices; and expand to 3rd party\
      \ forms, allowing advocates and organizations to provide additional support\
      \ to our mutual customers."
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app1_1
    SortOrder: 4
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: "To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or\
      \ information needed, we inform Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance\
      \ beneficiaries about their reporting responsibilities.  To determine whether\
      \ a beneficiary meets the Marital Status eligibility criteria, we must evaluate\
      \ a beneficiary’s state of being unmarried, married, divorced, or widowed. \
      \ Entitlement to some categories of benefits is impacted by the beneficiary’s\
      \ marital status, so we rely on beneficiaries to report changes in their marital\
      \ status.  Section 826 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 required the Commissioner\
      \ to establish and implement a system permitting Disability Insurance (DI) beneficiaries\
      \ to report their earnings electronically.  Our myWageReport (myWR) online application,\
      \ allows DI beneficiaries, Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients, concurrent\
      \ beneficiaries, and representative payees to report wages and view, print,\
      \ or save a receipt.  DI self-reporters and their representative payees can\
      \ report wages that occurred within a two-year timeframe from the reporting\
      \ date.  We promote use of our online wage reporting application, myWR, on social\
      \ media with training videos.  From October 2023 through February 2024, we released\
      \ social media posts on Facebook and X sharing a link to our YouTube video to\
      \ help beneficiaries learn why it is important to report wages and the automated\
      \ electronic options for wage reporting.  In February 2024, we issued reminders\
      \ on Social Security TV in field office reception areas to report relationship\
      \ changes as it may affect their Social Security payments.  In August 2024,\
      \ we published a blog about the importance of reporting changes.  The article\
      \ provided examples of life changes that need to be reported to Social Security\
      \ to avoid overpayments.  In July and August 2024, we used our social media\
      \ channels to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly\
      \ reporting changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure\
      \ accurate benefits and avoid overpayments.  We plan to use our social media\
      \ channels to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly\
      \ reporting changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure\
      \ accurate benefits and avoid overpayments.  These posts also inform beneficiaries\
      \ how we are required by law to adjust benefits or recover debts when people\
      \ receive payments they are not entitled to.  \n\nTo address improper payments\
      \ caused by inability to access the data or information needed, we are working\
      \ to simplify our notices and communications.  Some of our notices and communications\
      \ can be complex, lengthy, and difficult to comprehend.  The difficulty can\
      \ sometimes result from the complexity of our programs and legal requirements\
      \ to communicate certain information.  We published several blogs and Social\
      \ Security TV slides in field office waiting areas on the importance of reporting\
      \ relationship changes to us for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance\
      \ beneficiaries to improve the responsiveness of beneficiaries and recipients\
      \ in self-reporting information that impacts benefit payments.  We are currently\
      \ updating the Work Activity Report (SSA-821), to make it more understandable\
      \ and more likely to be completed by applicants and beneficiaries.  We use form\
      \ SSA-821 to collect information about applicant and beneficiary’s work, applicable\
      \ work incentives, and non-work-related pay.  It allows us to make accurate\
      \ decisions as to whether beneficiaries are performing Substantial Gainful Activity.\
      \  In addition, we developed a Work Incentive Notice pilot for increasing completion\
      \ of the Work Activity Report by sending beneficiaries pre-notices that incorporate\
      \ behaviorally informed language to encourage completion of these reports. \
      \ In addition, throughout 2024 we reviewed new and revised agency notices for\
      \ both clear messaging and plain language.  We will need to obtain Office of\
      \ Management and Budget clearance for Form SSA-821 prior to implementation.\
      \  We will sample notices and other communications and assess the quality and\
      \ understandability of our communications.  We will continue to inform and remind\
      \ beneficiaries about reporting responsibilities.  We will also continue to\
      \ review overpayment-related notice review requests (both new and revised language)\
      \ to make sure it is in plain language that people can read and understand."
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app2_1
    SortOrder: 5
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we issue reminders and policy clarifications to employees, as needed.  In
      November 2023, we issued a reminder to technicians about the importance of inputting
      Family Max when manually calculating benefits.  In March 2024, we updated policy
      providing detailed information to technicians regarding the importance of securing
      non-covered Government Pension data timely, when applicable, in order to calculate
      the correct benefit amount.  We will continue to issue reminders and policy
      clarifications to employees, as needed.
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app3_1
    SortOrder: 6
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: "To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or\
      \ information needed, we will pursue new data exchange partners from government\
      \ and private sectors in collaboration with our agency business sponsors.  We\
      \ plan to expand our outreach efforts with the Data Exchange Community of Practice\
      \ (DXCOP) and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage more\
      \ agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining the\
      \ exchange of data.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, we implemented two new incoming\
      \ data exchanges with State foster care agencies.  These data exchanges assist\
      \ in avoiding improper payments when a child's foster placement has changed.\
      \  For FY 2024, 24 states/entities signed an Information Exchange Agreement\
      \ and are participating, and 10 states signed the Information Exchange Agreement\
      \ of State Foster Data Exchanges.  These data exchanges assist in avoiding improper\
      \ payments when a child's foster placement has changed.  We continue to engage\
      \ State agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  In June and September\
      \ 2024, we held DXCOP meetings.  We continue to engage State agencies for the\
      \ purpose of expanding this exchange.  We plan to expand our outreach efforts\
      \ with the DXCOP and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage\
      \ more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining\
      \ the exchange of data.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by failure\
      \ to access data or information needed, we are improving our death data processing.\
      \  We collect data from a variety of sources so that we can administer our programs.\
      \  We have a contract with every State Bureau of Vital Statistics (the custodians\
      \ for death records) and with some jurisdictions to provide us death data. \
      \ Since 2002, we worked with States that want and are able to build a streamlined\
      \ death registration process known as Electronic Death Registration (EDR). \
      \ As of January 2022, all 50 States report deaths through the EDR process. \
      \ We plan to continue making progress in centralizing our death inputs, improving\
      \ the quality and processing of death data, and updating historical death records\
      \ in our databases.  In April 2024, for processing death reports, we issued\
      \ a reminder to technicians to the Death Information Processing System for reports\
      \ of death for enumerated individuals.  To improve the completeness of our death\
      \ information, we are in the early stages of contracting with the National Association\
      \ for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems on the acquisition of\
      \ historical State death records.  This effort will increase the accuracy, integrity,\
      \ and completeness of our death data.  \n\nTo address improper payments caused\
      \ by inability to access the data or information needed, and failure to access\
      \ data or information needed, we developed a data exchange for the Federal Employment\
      \ Compensation Act Data.  The Federal Employment Compensation Act (FECA) workers’\
      \ compensation program, which is administered by the Department of Labor (DOL),\
      \ provides coverage to three million Federal and Postal workers.  Receipt of\
      \ FECA benefits can offset Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)\
      \ benefits.  We have agreed with DOL to move forward with our request for DOL\
      \ FECA data.  We are working to finalize the agreement for DOL to provide FECA\
      \ payment data to assist us in our offset requirements.  In December 2023, the\
      \ agency established an eCOMP system Memorandum of Understanding with DOL to\
      \ obtain FECA benefits to allow the agency to offset OASDI benefits and prevent\
      \ or reduce overpayments.  Technicians can complete an ad hoc query in eCOMP\
      \ to obtain FECA data, the FECA payment status, dates, amounts and it is immediately\
      \ available to the technician via the eCOMP portal.  In April 2024, we provided\
      \ reminders on how to process initial claims with workers compensation lump-sum\
      \ settlement allegations.  We expect the exchange to be completed in FY 2025.\
      \  \n\nTo address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or\
      \ information needed, and failure to access data or information needed, and\
      \ to reduce the reliance on self-reporting of wages, we are developing new wage\
      \ reporting tools, such as an automated information exchange with commercial\
      \ payroll data providers authorized by section 824 of the Bipartisan Budget\
      \ Act of 2015, now referred to as the Payroll Information Exchange (PIE).  In\
      \ February 2024, we published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) describing\
      \ the agency’s plans for accessing and using information from payroll data providers\
      \ to reduce improper payments (overpayments and underpayments), which improves\
      \ service to customers.  The public comment period closed on April 15, 2024.\
      \  We are carefully considering the comments as we draft the final rule, which\
      \ is currently planned for publication in winter of FY 2025.  In FY 2024, we\
      \ completed the automated PIE wage reporting notices and created a limited issue\
      \ diary to alert technicians when incoming wage and employment information from\
      \ PIE doesn't automatically post to the SSI record, requiring manual review\
      \ and action.  We plan to implement PIE in the Spring of 2025 through a phased\
      \ approach.  This timeline will ensure compliance with rulemaking requirements\
      \ and allow us to respond to public concerns from the NPRM public comment period."
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app5_1
    SortOrder: 8
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we developed a Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and Government Pension
      Offset (GPO) Corrective Action Plan.  We developed a comprehensive corrective
      action plan to address multiple underlying causes of WEP and GPO improper payments.  We
      formed a cross-agency work group to review all Office of the Inspector General
      and internal studies to compile a comprehensive list of recommended changes
      in WEP and GPO implementation.  We assessed the root causes of improper payments
      based on these changes and developed policy, data, systems, and training solutions
      in line with each of the root causes of improper payments.  We developed a logic
      model framework to measure the effectiveness of completed corrective action
      that includes establishing benchmarks to evaluate the corrective actions, assessing
      the impact, if possible, and determining whether additional mitigation activities
      are necessary.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, the WEP/GPO calculator was added to
      the redesigned SSA.gov website.  In FY 2023, there was an increase in improper
      payments related to WEP, but overall, since FY 2017, there has been a significant
      reduction in improper payments related to WEP and GPO.  In March 2024, we provided
      detailed information to technicians regarding the importance of securing non-covered
      Government Pension data timely, when applicable, in order to calculate the correct
      benefit amount.  In FY 2024, we developed a new policy to address multiple non-covered
      pensions distributed or terminated at different periods of time.  This will
      provide a consistent national policy.  We plan to publish the policy in FY 2025.
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app6_1
    SortOrder: 9
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: "To address improper payments caused by inability to access data or information\
      \ needed, we look for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance beneficiaries\
      \ who are potentially entitled for higher benefits.  In October 2023, we mailed\
      \ out more than 15,000 notices to beneficiaries receiving spousal benefits and\
      \ more than 28,000 to surviving spouses who may potentially be eligible for\
      \ higher retirement benefits on their own records.  In April 2024, we issued\
      \ a policy reminder to technicians to review cases carefully to determine whether\
      \ retroactivity is applicable for surviving spouse benefits.  We also developed\
      \ a “Potential Entitlements” Tactical Plan to educate people who may be eligible\
      \ for Social Security benefits, particularly Survivors’ benefits and Supplemental\
      \ Security Income.  It also includes targeted outreach by providing materials\
      \ to third parties and our regional communications staffs.  We also conducted\
      \ a longitudinal study on mailers in fiscal year (FY) 2024.  The draft is currently\
      \ in the review/clearance process.  Communications tactics from our Tactical\
      \ Plan will continue through calendar year 2024.  \n\nTo address improper payments\
      \ caused by failure to access data or information needed, we look for Old-Age,\
      \ Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) beneficiaries who are working\
      \ and it may affect their eligibility to receive OASDI benefits.  WorkSmart\
      \ is a tool that identifies Disability Insurance beneficiaries whose earnings\
      \ put them at risk for being overpaid.  We created the WorkSmart project to\
      \ reduce Improper Payments by alerting cases quickly after the beneficiary starts\
      \ to work.  In FY 2024, WorkSmart continued to alert cases for work Continuing\
      \ Disability Reviews (CDR) based on available earnings data.  WorkSmart will\
      \ use Payroll Information Exchange data when available to alert cases for a\
      \ work CDR.  We will continue to use WorkSmart to reduce overpayments."
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app7_1
    SortOrder: 10
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  Program: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
  SortOrder: 39
- Answers:
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer:
    - Automation
    - Change Process
    - Predictive Analytics
    - Behavioral/Psych Influence
    - Cross Enterprise Sharing
    - Training
    Heading: Type(s) of Corrective Actions Planned to Prevent Future Improper Payments
      (by payment type)
    Key: cyp5_app1_8
    SortOrder: 1
    Subheading: Underpayments
    Type: MULTISELECT_TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we are developing a Consolidated Claims Experience (CCE) application.  CCE
      will be a single-entry point for employees to process all agency benefits.  CCE
      includes eligibility screening, initial claims intake processing, and post-entitlement
      activities.  CCE will automate more computations, reduce manual actions, assist
      in the identification of potential or missed entitlements, and include dynamic
      pathing and policy references within the application.  Currently, only Supplemental
      Security Income (SSI) is available in CCE with additional claim types (i.e.,
      Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance and Title 18) to be added in future
      releases.  In fiscal year 2023, there were several CCE updates in the SSI program
      to improve CCE software performance, correct software problems, and respond
      to employee feedback.  In December 2023, CCE Announcements became available.  Now,
      when updates are made within CCE, the technicians receive a brief message the
      first time they access the application describing the changes.  Hyperlinks will
      be provided for the user to access more in-depth information, if desired.  This
      enhancement is designed to assist our busy technicians by providing just-in-time
      information within CCE, so they do not have to pause and locate references related
      to CCE.  In June 2024, we released enhancements to several CCE pages including
      the Special Enrollment Period page and Alien Deportation page to upgrade the
      User Experience Framework.  We also released an enhancement to the Printing
      and Signature page that replaces the existing Printing and Signatures page with
      redesigned Print, Sign, and Document Summary pages.  For upcoming enhancements,
      we are working on a multi-phased implementation for SSI payment continuation,
      which will automate the current legacy process to a modernized input mechanism
      to initiate and remove payment continuation.  This will reduce user error and
      reliance on the regionally developed appeals application.  We are incorporating
      the start date functionality within CCE, which is housed within a regional application.  We
      also plan to release our first retirement benefit application within CCE.  We
      will test it in a few field offices before a national release.


      To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we developed the Technician Experience Dashboard (TED).  TED is our
      enterprise customer relationship management solution that will provide a single
      location for information about our customers’ interactions with the agency to
      make it easier for our employees to help the public and increases efficiency
      and accuracy, improving the overall customer experience.  In fiscal year (FY)
      2023, TED added Registration and Customer Support, Upload Document workflows,
      and made general improvements to the application.  In June 2023, TED became
      available for use in the Boston region.  In February 2024, TED was rolled out
      nationally to all field offices and workload support units.  In March 2024,
      an additional task called External Tasks became available.  External Tasks provides
      technicians the ability to open commonly used applications directly from TED.  As
      of June 2024, there are a total of 24 external applications available via TED.  We
      plan to continue to enhance the customer composite by bringing in and displaying
      more customer information from other systems.  Releases to enhance existing
      functionality occur on a quarterly basis.  We are also working on plans to expand
      to other user groups, such as field and regional offices, including Appellate
      Operations.  Integration of the technician facing portion of the Visitor Intake
      Process Rewrite is planned for late FY 2025.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access data or information
      needed, we developed a tool to submit and sign documents electronically.  In
      July 2023, we released the Upload Documents service into production.  In September
      2023 we added the electronic signature feature, which addresses the Executive
      Order on Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild
      Trust in Government.  In March 2024, we expanded the eSignature/Upload Documents
      service to all field offices and workload support units nationwide.  This release
      allows customers to access the service with fewer customer authentication requirements.  Also,
      in March 2024, eSignature/Upload Documents became available to all Field Offices
      and Workload Support Units Nationwide.  In April 2024 and subsequent months,
      we began releasing mobile friendly web fillable forms in place of PDF forms
      for customer completion.  Additionally, in June 2024, we added an automated
      10-day follow up reminder and confirmation of successful submission emails to
      enhance communication with our customers.  In September 2024, we integrated
      the service with my Social Security and also provide a new option for SMS/text
      communications.  We plan to complete the following:  continue to webify forms
      for a mobile friendly experience; continue increasing the number of forms and
      evidence types available; develop a self-service option accessible from my Social
      Security and SSA.gov; continue enhanced customer communications by including
      the Upload Document service option in all paper request notices; and expand
      to 3rd party forms, allowing advocates and organizations to provide additional
      support to our mutual customers.'
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app1_1
    SortOrder: 4
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or
      information needed, we inform Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients
      and representative payees about their reporting responsibilities through various
      methods:  during interviews, with application and redetermination forms, in
      some award and post-eligibility notices, in check envelope enclosures, and in
      a booklet that accompanies award notices.  Our annual Cost of Living Adjustment
      notices include reminders about reporting changes that could affect payments
      and eligibility.  In September 2013, we implemented an automated SSI wage reporting
      reminder for individuals who sign up to receive a monthly email or text message
      to report wages for the prior month.  We promote use of our online wage reporting
      application, myWageReport (myWR), on social media with training videos including
      information about the importance of creating a my Social Security account; how
      to submit wages using myWR, SSA Mobile Wage Reporting, or SSI Telephone Wage
      Reporting; who can report; and reminders on reporting responsibilities.  From
      October 2023 through February 2024, we published social media posts on Facebook
      and X sharing a link to our YouTube video to help beneficiaries learn why it
      is important to report wages and the automated electronic options for wage reporting.  In
      March 2024, we released a Dear Colleague Letter to advocates reminding them
      about SSI reporting responsibilities and the importance of ensuring we have
      current contact information.  In April 2024, we released a blog that explains
      to SSI recipients the importance of reporting their financial accounts.  The
      blog provides examples of financial accounts and informs the reader about Achieving
      a Better Life Experience accounts.  In July 2024, we published a blog about
      the agency’s commitment to improve timely delivery of payments to SSI recipients
      and our progress addressing underpayments.  In August 2024, we published a blog
      that explains to SSI recipients the importance of reporting life changes to
      Social Security.  The blog provides examples of life changes that need to be
      reported to avoid overpayments, how to report these changes, and where to obtain
      more information.  In July and August of 2024, we used our social media channels
      to post reminders for our beneficiaries about the importance of promptly reporting
      changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure accurate
      benefits and avoid overpayments.  We plan to use our social media channels to
      post reminders for our recipients about the importance of promptly reporting
      changes to their income, resources, and living arrangements to ensure accurate
      payments and avoid overpayments.  These posts also inform recipients how we
      are required by law to adjust payments or recover debts when people receive
      payments they are not entitled to.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we are working to simplify our notices and communications.  Some of
      our notices and communications can be complex, lengthy, and difficult to comprehend.  The
      difficulty can sometimes result from the complexity of our programs and legal
      requirements to communicate certain information.  We updated a blog for “Social
      Security Matters” that focuses on the importance of Supplemental Security Income
      recipients reporting their financial accounts and any changes related to financial
      accounts to us.  In an effort to increase responsiveness of beneficiaries and
      recipients in self-reporting information that impacts payments, we used behavioral
      insights methods to improve the clarity and effectiveness of the blog.  Also,
      we are currently updating the Work Activity Report (SSA-821) to make it more
      understandable and more likely to be completed by applicants.  In addition,
      throughout 2024 we reviewed new and revised agency notices for both clear messaging
      and plain language.  We will need to obtain Office of Management and Budget
      clearance for Form SSA-821 prior to implementation.  We will sample notices
      and other communications and assess the quality and understandability of our
      communications.  We will continue to inform and remind recipients about reporting
      responsibilities.  We will also continue to review overpayment-related notice
      review requests (both new and revised language) to make sure it is in plain
      language that people can read and understand.'
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app2_1
    SortOrder: 5
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: To address improper payments caused by failure to access data or information
      needed, we released updated guidance.  In June 2022, and subsequently in April
      2023 and August 2023, we released updated guidance on special processing instructions
      for applying Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and resource exclusions to pandemic-related
      disaster assistance.  In March 2023, and subsequently in April 2023, we released
      updated pandemic related assistance that meets the criteria for the disaster
      assistance exclusion chart.  In April 2023, we released reminders to ensure
      that SSI underpayment reviews are documented and completed in accordance with
      policy.  In August 2023, we provided post-pandemic transitional instructions
      for applying income and continued resource exclusions to pandemic-related disaster
      assistance.  The transitional instructions are still in place in 2024 until
      permanent policy instructions are published.  For recipients who incurred overpayments
      during COVID-19, we issued internal guidance for technicians reminding them
      how to adjudicate waiver requests.  We are drafting permanent policy instructions
      to replace the transitional instructions for applying income and continued resource
      exclusions to pandemic-related disaster assistance.  We plan to publish the
      permanent policy instructions in the second quarter of fiscal year 2025.
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app3_1
    SortOrder: 6
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or
      information needed, we are working to reduce the complexity of our Supplemental
      Security Income (SSI) application.  In August 2023, the agency reconvened the
      SSI Simplification Workgroup to address concerns regarding the complexity of
      our paper SSI application form, SSA-8000.  The workgroup, consisting of cross-component
      subject matter experts, is a collaborative effort to shorten and simplify the
      SSI application process in a three-phased approach:  Phase I – Focuses on an
      expansion of the current internet claim (iClaim) with added SSI questions; Phase
      II – Focuses on technician supported modalities, which will encompass adult,
      aged, child, married, and third-party applications through the service delivery
      channels of in-person, telephone, and forms; and Phase III – This will establish
      an online, mobile-first, and public-facing system for the SSI and Old-Age, Survivors,
      and Disability Insurance programs and other applications, replicating the telephone,
      in-person, and paper service delivery channels.  Human-centered design testing
      will be employed to shape the mobile-first solution.  We completed the following
      in fiscal year 2024:  completed development of the expansion of the SSI Simplification
      Phase I initiative, or iSSI process; posted to the Federal Register Notice (FRN)
      and obtained feedback from the public; reviewed the FRN comments and incorporated
      the feedback into our new three-phased approach; and reviewed the plan for the
      new approach with advocates/representatives and secured a decision to proceed
      from the Commissioner.  We plan to implement, in late 2024, the expansion of
      iSSI for SSI disability applicants.  The iSSI Release will expand iClaim and
      introduce as few as 12 user-tested, SSI-specific questions across 6 screens,
      shaping the simplified SSI application to be launched in late 2024.  We also
      plan to complete the following:  remove iClaim exclusions to allow online processing
      of approximately 5000 additional claims; finalize training and marketing materials;
      and complete final testing and prepare for a production release of the expanded
      iSSI.'
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app4_1
    SortOrder: 7
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or
      information needed and failure to access data or information needed, we developed
      Access to Financial Institutions (AFI).  The purpose of AFI is to identify resources
      in financial accounts; excess resources are a leading cause of Supplemental
      Security Income (SSI) payment errors.  The AFI program uses an electronic process
      with participating financial institutions to verify bank account balances and
      detect undisclosed accounts in up to 10 nearby banks based on the residential
      address.  In March 2023, we released Policy in Focus training and issued a frontline
      broadcast to remind technicians of AFI and SSI financial accounts policy.  In
      August 2023, we published AM-23048 - SSI Financial Account Verification Reminders
      and issued a frontline broadcast to ensure that technicians are reviewing the
      financial account pages in the SSI claims path for accuracy before adjudicating
      an event.  We began analysis on optimizing the use of AFI.  We expect to conclude
      our study on optimal frequency for use of AFI and related recommendations in
      fiscal year 2025.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, we will pursue new data exchange partners from government and private
      sectors in collaboration with our agency business sponsors.  We plan to expand
      our outreach efforts with the Data Exchange Community of Practice (DXCOP) and
      the States Data Exchange Community of Interest, to engage more agencies and
      broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining the exchange of
      data.  In fiscal year (FY) 2023, we implemented two new incoming data exchanges
      with State foster care agencies.  For FY 2024, 24 states/entities signed an
      Information Exchange Agreement and are participating, and 10 states signed the
      Information Exchange Agreement of State Foster Data Exchanges.  These data exchanges
      assist in avoiding improper payments when a child''s foster placement has changed.  We
      continue to engage State agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  In
      June and September 2024, we held DXCOP meetings.  We continue to engage State
      agencies for the purpose of expanding this exchange.  We plan to expand our
      outreach efforts with the DXCOP and the States Data Exchange Community of Interest,
      to engage more agencies and broaden the expansion of best practices toward streamlining
      the exchange of data.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed and failure to access data or information needed, we are improving our
      death data processing.  We collect data from a variety of sources so that we
      can administer our programs.  We have a contract with every State Bureau of
      Vital Statistics (the custodians for death records) and with some jurisdictions
      to provide us death data.  Since 2002, we worked with States that want and are
      able to build a streamlined death registration process known as Electronic Death
      Registration (EDR). As of January 2022, all 50 States report deaths through
      the EDR process.  We plan to continue making progress in centralizing our death
      inputs, improving the quality and processing of death data, and updating historical
      death records in our databases.  In April 2024, for processing death reports,
      we issued a reminder to technicians to the Death Information Processing System
      for reports of death for enumerated individuals.  To improve the completeness
      of our death information, we are in the early stages of contracting with the
      National Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems on
      the acquisition of historical State death records.  This effort will increase
      the accuracy, integrity, and completeness of our death data.


      To address improper payments caused by data or information needed does not exist
      and failure to access data or information needed, we have a National Change
      of Address (NCOA) contract and data exchange agreement with the U.S. Postal
      Service (USPS) for the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
      program.  We are electronically notified when an OASDI beneficiary reports an
      address change to the USPS and in most cases, the new address information automatically
      posts to our records.  We are determining the feasibility of the NCOA expansion
      to the SSI program.  Based on NCOA data analysis, we are updating the existing
      NCOA process before continuing to explore the feasibility of expansion to the
      SSI program.  We are updating a notice to add a reminder informing concurrent
      OASDI and SSI recipients to contact us because we may need additional information
      regarding their living situation.  The notice will have clarified language to
      concurrent OASDI and SSI recipients informing them to contact us to report living
      arrangement changes that may have occurred with the address change received
      through the NCOA process.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed, and failure to access data or information needed, and to reduce the
      reliance on self-reporting of wages, we are developing new wage reporting tools,
      such as an automated information exchange with commercial payroll data providers
      authorized by section 824 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, now referred
      to as the Payroll Information Exchange (PIE).  In February 2024, we published
      a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) describing the agency’s plans for accessing
      and using information from payroll data providers to reduce improper payments
      (overpayments and underpayments), which improves service to customers.  The
      public comment period closed on April 15, 2024.  We are carefully considering
      the comments as we draft the final rule, which is currently planned for publication
      in winter of FY 2025.  In fiscal year 2024, we completed the automated PIE wage
      reporting notices and created a limited issue diary to alert technicians when
      incoming wage and employment information from PIE doesn''t automatically post
      to the SSI record, requiring manual review and action.  We plan to implement
      PIE in the Spring of 2025 through a phased approach.  This timeline will ensure
      compliance with rulemaking requirements and allow us to respond to public concerns
      from the NPRM public comment period.'
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app5_1
    SortOrder: 8
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  - Agency: SSA
    Answer: 'To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or
      information needed, we looked for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance
      (OASDI) beneficiaries who are potentially entitled for higher Supplemental Security
      Income (SSI) payments than their OASDI benefit.  We developed a “Potential Entitlements”
      Tactical Plan to educate people who may be eligible for Social Security benefits,
      particularly Survivors’ benefits and SSI.  It also includes targeted outreach
      by providing materials to third parties and our regional communications staffs.  We
      also conducted a longitudinal study on mailers in fiscal year (FY) 2024.  The
      draft is currently in the review/clearance process.  Communications tactics
      from our Tactical Plan will continue through calendar year 2024.


      To address improper payments caused by inability to access the data or information
      needed and failure to access data or information needed, we conduct non-medical
      Supplemental Security Income (SSI) redeterminations (RZ).  A non-medical SSI
      RZ is a complete review of a recipient’s or couple’s non-medical eligibility
      factors (resources, income, and living arrangements) to determine whether the
      recipient or couple has remained eligible since the time of the previous decision,
      is still eligible for SSI, and has been receiving and will continue to receive
      the correct SSI payment amount.  To ensure the most cost-effective investment
      of agency resources, we use a predictive model to estimate the likelihood and
      magnitude of overpayments to select cases for discretionary RZs.  Other cases
      are selected for RZs outside our modeling process based on selected case characteristics,
      such as manual deeming of income.  The RZ process also selects limited issue
      (LI) reviews, which are reviews of a specific issue or event related to a recipient’s
      or couple’s non-medical eligibility factors to determine whether the recipient
      or couple is still eligible for and receiving the correct SSI payment.  In December
      2023, we issued guidance on achieving FY 2024 RZ and LI workload goals, with
      reminders to field offices about best practices and following the order of priority
      when scheduling RZs and LIs.  In FY 2024, we completed more than 2.5 million
      SSI non-medical RZs and LIs.  We plan to process about 2.5 million SSI RZs and
      LIs in FY 2025.'
    Heading: Actions Intended to Prevent Future Improper Payments and Unknown Payments
    Key: app7_1
    SortOrder: 10
    Subheading: ''
    Type: TEXT
  Program: Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
  SortOrder: 40
Report_Id: '2'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: Summary of Report Requirements from 31 U.S.C. § 3352(b)(2)
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 0
  Text: (2) REPORT ON HIGH-PRIORITY IMPROPER PAYMENTS.—...each executive agency with
    a (high-priority) program ...shall on an annual basis submit...a report on that
    (high-priority) program.
  Type: ITALICIZED
- Indent: 1
  Text: (B) CONTENTS.— Each report submitted ...
  Type: ITALICIZED
- Indent: 2
  Text: (i) shall describe any action the executive agency—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 3
  Text: (I) has taken or plans to take to recover improper payments (for the High-Priority
    Program); and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 3
  Text: (II) intends to take to prevent future improper payments (for the High-Priority
    Program)
  Type: REGULAR
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2024_SSA_2
title: Agency High-Priority Program Report
---
