---
Agency: '*'
Agency_Name: Government Wide
DoNotPayData:
  Evaluations:
  - Agency: CFTC
    Agency_Name: Commodity Futures Trading Commission
    Answer: "The Do Not Pay (DNP) solution is a governmentwide initiative to screen\
      \ payment recipients before a contract award or payment is made to eliminate\
      \ payment errors before they occur. The Commission has integrated the solution\
      \ into existing processes as part of its efforts to identify and prevent improper\
      \ payments. The Commission’s shared services provider utilizes the DNP Business\
      \ Center, on the Commission’s behalf, to perform online searches and screen\
      \ payments against the DNP databases to augment data analytics capabilities.\
      \ \n\nAll non-payroll payments disbursed by the Commission are processed through\
      \ the DNP portal, including payments to whistleblowers and travel reimbursements\
      \ to Commission employees.  As of October 21, 2024, 3,277 FY 2024 payments totaling\
      \ $149.9 million were processed through the DNP portal, representing 100.0 percent\
      \ of all non-payroll payments disbursed by the Commission.  Based on the results\
      \ of the reviews to date, the DNP initiative has not identified any improper\
      \ payments for the Commission."
  - Agency: CNCS
    Agency_Name: Corporation for National and Community Service
    Answer: AmeriCorps does not use the Do Not Pay Initiative in its payment integrity
      assessment for ASN and FGP, as all tested payments are made outside the agency
      by grantees. None of the datasets in the Do Not Pay Initiative allow AmeriCorps
      to validate payments made external to the agency by grantees. Trust payments
      are made to federal student loan servicing providers or educational institutions.
      The eligibility of those institutions is determined prior to payment. In FY
      2024, AmeriCorps did not experience a reduction in improper payments due to
      the Do Not Pay initiative.
  - Agency: CPSC
    Agency_Name: Consumer Product Safety Commission
    Answer: The CPSC is a small agency that leverages the use of DNP via the financial
      shared services provider - ARC.
  - Agency: CSOSA
    Agency_Name: Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of
      Columbia
    Answer: 'CSOSA and its financial system service provider, the Department of Interior-Interior
      Business Center (IBC), use the DNP Initiative to review payment eligibility
      for purposes of identifying and preventing improper payments. The DNP Validation
      is completed each weekend. The IBC receives an email from DNP notifying them
      that the Continuous Monitoring results are refreshed. The IBC will refresh the
      OFF report data the first workday of the week. IBC sends an email notification
      immediately after the data is made available. Upon receipt of this email notification,
      CSOSA Office of Financial Management (OFM) will run the OFF Report and format
      based on the three available reports: Matched to Vendor, Matched Vendors Tied
      to PO, and Matched Vendors Tied to AP. The three identified reports include
      vendors with matched results of “Possible”, “Probable”, and “Conclusive”. The
      information reported to

      the CSOSA Office of Procurement (Procurement) is based on those vendors with
      a “Conclusive” match result. OFM issues an email to Procurement on a weekly
      basis identifying those vendors who appeared on the DNP Report. Prior to submitting
      a new OFF Vendor Request form, the Agency must ensure the vendor is not referenced
      on the DNP List. The information is provided weekly by email to all credit cardholders
      to ensure they are not using any vendors identified on the DNP Report. CSOSA
      Accounts Payable staff are informed of this information as it pertains to reposting
      monthly bank statements and Budget Analysts are informed as well to assist them
      when approving requisitions. Prior to submitting a new Vendor Request form,
      CSOSA must ensure the vendor is not referenced on the DNP List. OFM informs
      IBC to end date positively identified vendors in OFF via email. CSOSA has neither
      identified a material amount nor realized a reduction of improper payments attributable
      to implementing the DNP Initiative capabilities. Rather, CSOSA’s DNP Initiative
      implementation has proven that CSOSA has robust and effective internal controls
      over ensuring that eligible entities receive Federal funds.'
  - Agency: DFC
    Agency_Name: International Development Finance Corporation
    Answer: DFC uses the Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative to reduce the risk of improper
      payments. DFC disburses payments through its shared service provider, Department
      of Treasury, Bureau of Fiscal Services (BFS), and its programmatic payments
      are validated against the DNP database prior to disbursement. In addition, DFC
      uses DNP as part of its due diligence activities by validating project counterparties
      against the DNP database prior to project commitment. DFC has not identified
      specific instances where the DNP Initiative has reduced improper payments or
      awards.
  - Agency: DHS
    Agency_Name: Department of Homeland Security
    Answer: "Across the Department, many DHS Components utilize the Do Not Pay (DNP)\
      \ Initiative to assist in preventing and detecting improper payments. Primary\
      \ use is focused during the “At the Time of Payment” stage in the payment lifecycle.\
      \ Any funds disbursed by the Department of Treasury go through Payment Integration,\
      \ in which the DNP Portal automatically matches all payment files against the\
      \ established DNP datasets. Current DHS usage of the DNP Initiative is more\
      \ heavily focused on detecting potential payment issues versus prevention. \n\
      \nBased on the DHS usage of DNP in fiscal year (FY) 2024, there were 12 DHS\
      \ Components had their payment data reviewed against the DNP datasets which\
      \ have been vetted against Social Security Administration (SSA) Death Master\
      \ File (DMF), American InfoSource (AIS) Obituary and Probate, Department of\
      \ Defense, and Department of State data sources during Payment Integration (or\
      \ at the time of payment). Overall, in FY 2024 (note that due to the timing\
      \ of this reporting, all September 2024 activity may not yet have been included\
      \ on the Payment Activity Report) there were approximately 3.8 million DHS payments\
      \ reviewed totaling to over $45.6 billion in disbursement activity. For the\
      \ data reported:\n•\tApproximately 89 percent of DHS payments had no issues\
      \ noted during the review.\n•\tApproximately 10 percent of DHS payments were\
      \ noted as having incomplete or invalid data elements (i.e., social security\
      \ number, first / last name, etc.) that resulted in the payment transaction\
      \ being deemed as ‘unmatchable’ to the standardized DNP datasets.\n•\tLess than\
      \ 1 percent of payments were “matched” to the standardized DNP datasets and\
      \ thus required further DHS review and adjudication to determine the appropriateness\
      \ of the payment."
  - Agency: DNFSB
    Agency_Name: Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
    Answer: In FY2024, DNFSB did not use the Do Not Pay (DNP) initiative portal. However,
      prior to making a new contract/award, DNFSB checked all procurements on the
      System for Award Management (SAM) database to confirm if a contractor is debarred.  Currently,
      DNFSB is transitioning to the Department of Interior, Interior Business Center
      (DOI/IBC) for accounting system support and accounts payable processing.  As
      part of the transition, DNFSB will implement the DNP initiative in FY2025. Prior
      to making a new contract award, DNFSB will utilize the SAM database to see if
      the vendor is excluded from receiving contracts and will verify vendors on the
      Department of Treasury’s DNP database.
  - Agency: DOC
    Agency_Name: Department of Commerce
    Answer: The Department in FY 2024 utilized the Do Not Pay portal for pre-payment
      checking and post-payment adjudication checking.  The Department's above noted
      Do Not Pay processes in FY 2024 did not lead to the significant reduction of
      any improper payments.
  - Agency: DOD
    Agency_Name: Department of Defense
    Answer: 'Within the Department of Defense (DoD), the Do Not Pay (DNP) database
      is used on a regular basis for the following payments: Military Health Benefits
      (issued by the Defense Health Agency; Commercial Pay (issued by the Defense
      Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS)); and USACE (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers)
      Commercial Pay (issued by USACE), comprising the majority of the payments issued
      by the Department. Retirement & Annuitant Pay (issued by DFAS) is currently
      in the process of enrolling into DNP with the anticipated implementation in
      fiscal year 2024. Amongst the three DoD agencies currently enrolled in DNP,
      the Department uses the online search, payment integration, and batch matching
      features of DNP on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. The majority of the flagged
      payees are based on the Death Master File and the name match results from the
      rest of the DNP databases (e.g., System for Award Management). The Department
      researches all payments that are identified to be potentially improper.


      Research has determined that the majority of these match results are false positives
      (e.g., a vendor’s tax identification number is matched to a deceased individual’s
      social security number, and the payment is erroneously flagged). The remaining
      matches are almost always deemed proper based on established business rules
      related to contracts terms and vendor performance (as payments cannot be stopped
      to vendors who performed properly under contractual agreements). The Department
      has historically adjudicated and deemed proper all potential improper payments
      identified using the DNP Portal. To date, the DNP initiative has not reduced
      the Department’s improper payments.'
  - Agency: DOE
    Agency_Name: Department of Energy
    Answer: "DOE uses the Do Not Pay portal within the Treasury Working System to\
      \ review payments eligibility for DOE payment sites and some labs for purposes\
      \ of identifying and preventing improper payments and fraud.\n\nWhere the system\
      \ identifies exclusion matches for supplier records of POs with funding exhausted,\
      \ DOE closes such records. A note is then added in the DBA name field that the\
      \ vendor has an active exclusion. A request to reopen the supplier would alert\
      \ the supplier team to perform mandatory validation checks before reopening.\
      \ This ensures no new awards are granted to suppliers with active exclusions.\
      \ DOE also send a daily file to DNP for Batch Matching to ensure that there\
      \ are no missed data source matches in the Continuous Monitoring process that\
      \ would result from any timing issues.\n\nDOE utilizes DNP as a proactive solution\
      \ for reducing/preventing improper payments as opposed to being reactive. During\
      \ FY 2023, there were 3 supplier records closed due to active SAM Exclusion\
      \ matches in DNP. Closing of supplier records prevents procurement offices from\
      \ entering into any new contracts with the vendors which could result in improper\
      \ payments. Since DNP is a proactive solution to preventing improper payments,\
      \ quantitative amount of the dollar or number of improper payments prevented\
      \ by the use of DNP cannot be made; otherwise, the cost of tracking would outweigh\
      \ the benefit.\n\nDOE utilizes other databases besides the SAM Exclusion, such\
      \ as:\n-\tAmerican InfoSource Death Data – Obituary (AIS-OBIT)\n-\tDept of Defense\
      \ Death Data (DOD)\n-\tSAM Entity Registration Records (SAMENT)\n-\tTOP Debt\
      \ Check (DBCK)\n-\tAmerican InfoSource Death Data – Probate (AIS-PROB)\n-\t\
      Dept of State Death Data (DOS)\n-\tNAPHSIS Electronic Verification of Vital\
      \ Events Fact of Death (EVVE FOD)\n-\tOffice of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)\n\
      -\tSAM Exclusion Records – Restricted (SAM-EXCL-RES)\n-\tSSA Death Master File\
      \ (DMF)\n\nFor FY 2023, there were 112,655 payments screened through Do Not\
      \ Pay totaling $10.6 billion.\n"
  - Agency: DOI
    Agency_Name: Department of the Interior
    Answer: In FY 2024, DOI continued its collaboration with the Department of the
      Treasury’s Bureau of Fiscal Service to strengthen pre-and-post payment monitoring
      efforts by identifying areas for improvement. As part of this initiative, the
      Department worked with Treasury to submit a request for access to additional
      data sources within the DNP Portal to enhance preventive controls. The Department
      also maintains ongoing communication with Bureaus and Offices, emphasizing the
      importance of using the DNP Portal to verify eligibility across various data
      sources, ensuring that vendors, grantees, loan recipients, and beneficiaries
      are qualified to receive federal payments.
  - Agency: DOJ
    Agency_Name: Department of Justice
    Answer: The Department of Justice has access to all DNP data sources that are
      helpful in identifying potential improper payments and awards. The Department’s
      use of the sources in FY 2024 identified improper payments made to 3 payees
      totaling $146,668.75. In one instance, two payments were made to a payee with
      the same name as the decedent and the Department has since recovered the funds.  In
      the other two instances, the recipients were beneficiary payments under the
      Civil Division’s programs.  In each of these cases, the Division is working
      with very sick individuals and sometimes, during the time between the decision
      to make a payment to a beneficiary and the time the payment is received, the
      beneficiary passes away. In each case, we work closely with the beneficiary’s
      family and a legal team to recoup the funds.
  - Agency: DOL
    Agency_Name: Department of Labor
    Answer: 'DOL programs conduct pre-payment reviews against databases on the DNP
      List, as appropriate. Programs with a business need use the DNP Working Solution
      when determined cost-effective to review against appropriate databases. The
      dollar effect of these reviews in overall IP prevention is impossible to quantify.
      Additionally, the UI Integrity Center partnered with the U.S. Department of
      the Treasury’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service to provide states access to the
      Do Not Pay system  and the FECA program conducts data analytics and cross-referencing
      with the DNP Business Center to mitigate the risk of inappropriate inter-Agency
      dual benefits.


      DOL programs with matches in the DNP Portal are directly responsible for reviewing
      and adjudicating. They are not required to report IP prevented to DNP nor DOL-OCFO.
      Information regarding IP prevented by the DNP Portal on PaymentAccuracy.gov
      represent managerial judgement of options the multiple-choice response template
      allows for PaymentAccuracy.gov.

      '
  - Agency: DOT
    Agency_Name: Department of Transportation
    Answer: 'An important part of the Department’s program integrity efforts is integrating
      Treasury Department’s Do Not Pay (DNP) Business Center into our existing processes.
      DOT utilizes the DNP Business Center to perform online searches, screen payments
      against the DNP databases, and augment DOT’s Payment Integrity Center capabilities.


      DNP specifically helps the Department prevent improper payments by matching
      all of our payments against the death data sources on a daily basis.  In addition,
      we expanded our DNP online search capabilities during FY 2024 to all available
      data sources. Several DOT program managers reached out to search grant recipients
      against DNP data sources as another layer of verification and validation.  For
      FY 2024, DNP identified 14 DOT payments that matched against the death data
      sources amounting to approximately $12,224.76. Even though all FY 2024 matches
      were proper payments, the information enabled DOT staff to take proactive measures
      and reduce repeat occurrences.


      Overall, the Department has neither identified a material amount nor realized
      a material reduction of improper payments attributable to our evolving DNP capabilities.
      Our DNP implementation has proven, however, that DOT has robust and effective
      internal controls over ensuring that eligible entities receive Federal funds.'
  - Agency: ED
    Agency_Name: Department of Education
    Answer: DNP has been an excellent resource for the agency. DNP has helped the
      agency stop payments to ineligible recipients.
  - Agency: EEOC
    Agency_Name: Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
    Answer: 'The EEOC does not presently use the Do Not Pay Initiative (DNP) as the
      EEOC is cross-serviced by the Department of Interior, Interior Business Center
      (DOI/IBC) for accounting system support and accounts payable processing.  As
      a result, the implementation of the DNP initiative is a joint responsibility
      between the EEOC and IBC. Prior to making a new contract award, the EEOC utilizes
      the System for Award Management (SAM) to see if the vendor is excluded from
      receiving contracts. If SAM does not list any exclusions, the EEOC submits a
      new vendor request to IBC. The IBC Vendor Maintenance Team verifies EEOC’s entire
      new employee and Non-Federal Vendor requests against the Department of Treasury’s
      DNP database and if the IBC Vendor Maintenance Team finds a positive match,
      they notify the EEOC. The EEOC reviews the match, determines if the payment
      is proper, and reports the result.

      '
  - Agency: EPA
    Agency_Name: Environmental Protection Agency
    Answer: 'The PIIA requires federal agencies to implement the Do Not Pay initiative,
      a government-wide solution designed to prevent payment errors and detect waste,
      fraud, and abuse in programs administered by the federal government. The EPA’s
      payments are screened by the Treasury’s DNP working system to detect improper
      payments. The Treasury analyzes each agency’s payments and provides a monthly
      report itemizing any payments that were made to potentially ineligible recipients.
      These potential matches are identified when the name of an agency’s payee matches
      the name of an individual or entity listed in federal data sources contained
      in the Treasury’s DNP working system.

      In FY 2024, the Treasury screened the EPA payments through the following DNP
      data sources on a post-payment basis: the Social Security Administration’s Death
      Master File and the General Services Administration’s System for Award Management
      Exclusion List. During FY 2024 a total of 226,737 EPA  payments worth $6.51
      billion were screened. Of those payments, only one was identified as potentially
      improper. That payment was reviewed and adjudicated to be a proper payment.'
  - Agency: EXIM
    Agency_Name: Export-Import Bank of the United States
    Answer: EXIM complies with all aspects of the Do Not Pay Initiative through its
      Character, Reputational, and Transaction Integrity (CRTI) process. All transactions
      in the three authorization-based payment programs (Short, Medium, and Long-Term)
      undergo CRTI checks. As a part of CRTI, names of participants are searched within
      a database clearing house of over 20 directories to determine compliance with
      a variety of “Know your Customer” (KYC) and EXIM due-diligence requirements.
      Also, EXIM does not disburse funds directly to payees but through the U.S. Department
      of Treasury Secured Payment System, where any funds disbursed by the Department
      of Treasury go through payment integration in which the Do Not Pay portal automatically
      matches all the files against the Death Master file and the System for Award
      Management (SAM) exclusion records.
  - Agency: FCA
    Agency_Name: Farm Credit Administration
    Answer: While the Farm Credit Administration does not use Do Not Pay directly,
      our shared service provider uses the Do Not Pay Initiative to ensure only valid
      vendors are enabled for payment. The use of Do Not Pay by our service provider
      reduces potential improper payments up front in the pre-award and pre-payment
      phases. For pre-award activity, we use the System for Award Management to validate
      that vendors are eligible to do business with the Federal government.
  - Agency: FCC
    Agency_Name: Federal Communications Commission
    Answer: We use Do Not Pay (DNP) for onboarding new programs and new vendors.  This
      process has attributed to the reduction in improper payments.  We do not DNP
      to determine awards.  We have used DNP to hold off on making an award if the
      vendor was not active in SAM (this is one of the flags on the DNP portal that
      would have a vendor appear on the report we receive when we bump our vendors
      list up against the DNP portal).
  - Agency: FEC
    Agency_Name: Federal Election Commission
    Answer: The FEC uses a shared service provider.  The shared service provider performs
      this function for us.
  - Agency: FERC
    Agency_Name: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
    Answer: Given that FERC Improper Payment results have been historically less than
      1% on an annual basis, FERC does not utilize Treasury's Do Not Pay platform.  FERC
      internal controls over all disbursement activities have provided reasonable
      assurance that all payments are appropriately reviewed before issuance to the
      vendor/individual.
  - Agency: FLRA
    Agency_Name: Federal Labor Relations Authority
    Answer: The Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative serves as a useful tool in mitigating
      the possibility of Improper Awards and Payments. If a vendor is on the DNP list,
      this information is communicated to our Contracting Officer thereby ensuring
      no contract awards occur with vendors on the DNP list thereby mitigating the
      possibility of potentially problematic contract awards/payments occurring.
  - Agency: FMC
    Agency_Name: Federal Maritime Commission
    Answer: The FMC works with BFS who utilizes this tool actively.
  - Agency: FTC
    Agency_Name: Federal Trade Commission
    Answer: FTC's shared service provider validates vendor data weekly against Do
      Not Pay to identify and deactivate prohibited vendors. The FTC reviews potential
      debarred vendors on an on-going basis during its pre-award contract process.
  - Agency: GCRC
    Agency_Name: Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
    Answer: As part of our service provider's standard procedures, the Bureau of Fiscal
      Service ARC regularly checks suppliers through the Do Not Pay (DNP) portal.
      This includes a weekly run that identifies active suppliers who should not be
      paid by the government. If any supplier is found on that list, they are promptly
      deactivated and cannot be used.
  - Agency: GSA
    Agency_Name: General Services Administration
    Answer: Treasury screens each of GSA's summary schedules against the Do Not Pay
      system daily. Very few matches are returned. Most matches are for salary payments
      and are false positives (there is a valid reason for the payment). The Financial
      Management Systems Operations and Maintenance Division sends the Pegasys vendor
      table to the Do Not Pay portal on the 10th of each month. The matches are researched
      in Pegasys to verify that the vendor has been marked "Debarred" or "Inactive".
      The Debarment flag is interfaced from SAM. The Inactive flag is manually adjusted
      in Pegasys if the Debarment has not yet interfaced into Pegasys or if a vendor
      on the Death Master List is identified. The Do Not Pay initiative continues
      to help reduce improper payments at GSA.
  - Agency: HHS
    Agency_Name: Department of Health and Human Services
    Answer: In FY 2024, HHS screened 1.2 million payments totaling $799.5 billion
      against death record databases. Although 68 potential improper payments were
      flagged, none were confirmed as improper. CMS screened 1.0 billion payments
      worth $429.3 billion against PIIA-listed databases, preventing 363,386 payments
      and saving $2.6 billion.
  - Agency: HUD
    Agency_Name: Department of Housing and Urban Development
    Answer: 'The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) was mandated
      to use the Treasury''s Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative to verify the eligibility
      of recipients before awarding federal funds and prior to each payment disbursement,
      as per the Payment Integrity Information Act (PIIA) of 2019. However, due to
      the expiration of HUD''s Computer Matching Agreement (CMA) with the Treasury
      in 2019, the agency has been unable to fully utilize DNP. This lapse has resulted
      in payments to entities with inactive or unregistered System for Award Management
      (SAM) statuses, indicating that the DNP Initiative has not been utilized consistently
      across HUD programs. Consequently, there has been an increase in the risk of
      improper payments, suggesting that the DNP Initiative, while potentially effective
      in reducing improper payments, has not been fully leveraged by the agency, thus
      failing to reduce improper payments as intended. HUD is currently clearing signatures
      for an updated computer matching agreement with Treasury.

      '
  - Agency: IMLS
    Agency_Name: Institute of Museum and Library Services
    Answer: The agency reviews 100% of payments for accuracy and completeness. Our
      Shared Service Provider is responsible for use of the Do Not Pay Initiative.
      The agency reviews 100% of payments for accuracy and completeness. The Do Not
      Pay Initiative has further strengthened controls over disbursements.
  - Agency: MCC
    Agency_Name: Millennium Challenge Corporation
    Answer: On a weekly basis, IBC uploads MCC Payment batches into the Do Not Pay
      Portal. Treasury returns the payment batches to IBC who uploads the files in
      Oracle and advises MCC that the files are available. MCC downloads the Payment
      Activity Report monthly from the Do Not Pay Portal and reviews the list for
      items in need of adjudication. Flagged payments or payments listed as possible
      matches are reviewed with the respective MCC division making the payment before
      a determination is reported to Treasury on the portal. Although payments can
      be flagged, the system often either produces false positive or inaccurate probable
      matches. Therefore, MCC vendors are vetted in other databases like SAM which
      is more accurate prior to award and payments. MCC did not identify any improper
      payments as a result of the Do Not Pay Initiative.
  - Agency: MSPB
    Agency_Name: Merit Systems Protection Board
    Answer: MSPB's primary outlays are salaries and benefits of MSPB employees. MSPB
      adheres to personnel and payroll standard practices in accordance with USDA
      APHIS and NFC guidance. Additionally, MSPB independently conducts periodic reviews
      to ensure accuracy and integrity of the data. The Do Not Pay Initiative is comprised
      of multiple systems to determine eligibility for potential recipients (not employees)
      to obtain payments.
  - Agency: NARA
    Agency_Name: National Archives and Records Administration
    Answer: 'NARA''s financial shared service provider, the Department of Treasury,
      Bureau of Fiscal Service, runs weekly checks on disbursed payments against the
      DNP/Treasury Working System. Incorrect DNP

      information is rarely identified and therefore, corrections are rare. However
      when they are discovered, immediate corrective action is taken. No NARA payments
      were reported to have been stopped by DNP in FY 2024.'
  - Agency: NASA
    Agency_Name: National Aeronautics and Space Administration
    Answer: "NASA enrolled in the Department of the Treasury’s DNP portal process\
      \ on September 27,2014. Its Payment Automation file is vetted against the Security\
      \ Administration (SSA) Death Master File. The cumulative results of these monthly\
      \ reviews reported are for the period of October 2023- July 2024. During this\
      \ time period, there were 112,334 payments made by Treasury on behalf of NASA\
      \ with a dollar value of $15,097,597,804.38. \nThe review by NASA resulted in\
      \ no matching improper payments for FY24."
  - Agency: NEA
    Agency_Name: National Endowment for the Arts
    Answer: 'Our financial system provider, ESC, verifies an entity against both SAM
      and the Internal Revenue Service’s taxpayer identification number (TIN) prior
      to establishing them as a vendor in the financial accounting systems. ESC also
      integrates SAM.gov with the financial system to manage supplier databases in
      order to improve the accuracy of data. ESC uses the Do Not Pay (DNP) business
      center at the Treasury Department to improve the quality and integrity of system
      financial information through the use of the DNP Analytics service where vendor
      profiles are matched against the Death Master File. Vendor maintenance processes
      are also performed by ESC to deactivate profiles without activity for eighteen
      months.


      We believe our use of Do Not Pay via ESC has resulted in reduced improper payments.'
  - Agency: NEH
    Agency_Name: National Endowment for the Humanities
    Answer: The Office of Grants Management (OGM) performs a DNP check prior to issuance
      of a grant award.  OGM does not award a recipient a grant award if there is
      a flag in DNP.
  - Agency: NLRB
    Agency_Name: National Labor Relations Board
    Answer: The NLRB have not used all the reports from the Do Not Pay Initiative.
      In the long run, the Do Not Pay initiative will help reduce the improper payments.
  - Agency: NRC
    Agency_Name: Nuclear Regulatory Commission
    Answer: NRC’s Acquisitions Management Division does not use Do Not Pay (DNP) but
      does use other mechanisms to determine which vendors should be considered in
      doing business with as required by the FAR. Once a contract is signed, NRC is
      obligated to pay a valid contract invoice within 30 days of receipt per the
      Prompt Payment Act. The NRC’s payment vendor file is used within DNP quarterly.
      NRC has not found any improper payments because of using DNP. NRC consistently
      makes proper payments of approximately 99% annually.
  - Agency: NSF
    Agency_Name: National Science Foundation
    Answer: 'All NSF payments are compliant with Treasury’s Payment Application Modernization
      format and are screened against the following data sources: Social Security
      Death Master File (DMF) [public information] and the GSA System for Award Management
      (SAM) Exclusion Records [restricted information]. Any subsequent matches are
      viewable in Treasury’s DNP online portal for adjudication purposes. There was
      1 positive DNP match on a payment of $400 that NSF issued in FY2024 which was
      ultimately determined to be proper.'
  - Agency: OGE
    Agency_Name: Office of Government Ethics
    Answer: OGE uses the Do Not Pay Initiative as a check and balance to ensure no
      improper payments are being made in coordination with it Shared Service Financial
      Management Services provider, the Bureau of Fiscal Service. Payment Activity
      reports are routinely reviewed for payment eligibility and against Do Not Pay
      databases to ensure proper payments. The Do Not Pay Initiative validates OGE's
      proper payment integrity.  OGE has not been notified of any improper payments
      during the reporting period, as such it can be assumed that the Do Not Pay Initiative
      has had a positive impact on reducing Improper Payments.
  - Agency: OPM
    Agency_Name: Office of Personnel Management
    Answer: 'OPM''s Retirement Services (RS) uses the Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative,
      in conjunction with other methods, monthly to detect, prevent, and reduce improper
      payments. OPM''s RS Fraud Analysts access the DNP portal monthly, pulling nationally
      reported deaths of annuitants through the following death data sources: Department
      of State (DOS); Department of Defense (DOD); American Infosource (AIS) – Probate,
      American Infosource (AIS) - Obituary; and the full Death Master File (DMF).
      There were over 40,000 hits/names/payments reviewed in FY 2024. All hits/names/payments
      were verified by Fraud Analysts through open and closed source investigative
      tools. In FY 2024, over 4,500 names were confirmed deceased and dropped for
      death, preventing over $8,500,000.00 in improper annuity payments from being
      issued.


      FEHB uses the Do Not Pay (DNP) portal once a year, in February/March, to check
      new carrier applicants in the FEHB Program. OPM did not identify any incorrect
      information.

      '
  - Agency: OSC
    Agency_Name: Office of Special Counsel
    Answer: OSC does not use the DNP initiative.  90 percent or more of OSC's annual
      spending is made up of salaries, benefits, and/or rent, which leads very little
      spending for discretionary items.  The discretionary items that OSC does purchase
      are reflected in quotes from vendors, or contracts facilitated by assisted acquisition
      providers, therefore providing very little possibility of error or improper
      payment.
  - Agency: PBGC
    Agency_Name: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
    Answer: 'PBGC has implemented the Do Not Pay (DNP) system. DNP is used after payments
      have been made to vendors. If a vendor shows up on the DNP list, the Financial
      Operations Department (FOD) consults with

      the Procurement Department (PD) to see if a future payment should be withheld
      in accordance with FAR.

      For every contract award, PD also executes a Contractor Responsibility Assessment
      (CRA) report using the automated FedDataCheck tool.'
  - Agency: PC
    Agency_Name: Peace Corps
    Answer: 'Peace Corps uses the following DNP Portal services to verify eligibility
      status of payment recipients: Online Single Search, Continuous Monitoring, and
      Payment Integration.


      We used the following DNP Databases; OFAC Online Single Search, Continuous Monitoring,
      and for Payment Integration, for all USD payments processed via Treasury.'
  - Agency: PCLOB
    Agency_Name: Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
    Answer: PCLOB's financial service provider, ARC, runs the DNP process each week.
      According to our service provider, this has historically helped them reduce
      improper payments for their customers.
  - Agency: RRB
    Agency_Name: Railroad Retirement Board
    Answer: 'We have determined that our current business processes, data sources,
      and the Do Not Pay Initiative are effective in detecting and preventing benefit
      overpayments. As a benefit paying agency, the RRB receives

      pre-payment information regarding benefit entitlement at other agencies and
      wage information. We have ongoing data sources established and in use for this
      information, which includes benefit entitlement and wages from SSA, employers,
      and our application process. We also receive post-payment wage information through
      established sources such as wage matching programs with the fifty states. In
      addition, we receive death data directly from SSA and CMS, which provides us
      with detailed death information.'
  - Agency: SBA
    Agency_Name: Small Business Administration
    Answer: SBA submitted all programmatic disbursements through the DNP portal.  For
      disbursements that have not been disbursements yet, SBA would require the recipients
      to resolve the DNP finding prior to becoming eligible for SBA funding.  For
      disbursements that have already been sent to the recipient, SBA would place
      a hold code on the loan or grant and/or deny future loan or grant requests or
      loan relief requests until the recipient was able to successfully resolve the
      DNP finding.
  - Agency: SEC
    Agency_Name: Securities and Exchange Commission
    Answer: The SEC utilizes the Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative by evaluating possible
      improper payments flagged by the DNP Portal to ascertain whether flagged payments
      are actual improper payments. Historically, the agency has had very few improper
      payments, and this has continued during FY2024. After payment has been sent,
      the SEC monitors the system once a week to be proactive if DNP marks a payment
      as possibly improper in order to research and request return of a payment, if
      needed.
  - Agency: SSA
    Agency_Name: Social Security Administration
    Answer: "We use the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) Do Not Pay (DNP) on\
      \ a small scale to perform single searches on data sources regarding vital status\
      \ of beneficiaries to develop for leads to refer cases to the Office of Inspector\
      \ General.\n \nWe have access to the same data as DNP applicable to our programs\
      \ such as the General Services Administration’s System for Award Management\
      \ (SAM), the full file of the Social Security Administration’s death information\
      \ (including state death data), and Prisoner Update Processing System (PUPS).\n\
      \nSAM:  We comply with regulations to use the List of Excluded Individuals/Entities\
      \ (LEIE), which accomplishes the same purpose as the Exclusions query via SAM.gov.\
      \  From SAM.gov, we can verify through Entity Registrations if any person or\
      \ organization is registered to do business with the Federal Government and\
      \ determine a person or organization’s eligibility to do business with the Federal\
      \ Government through a check of the Exclusions query.  We continue to follow\
      \ all policies prescribed in Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 9.4 – Debarment,\
      \ Suspension, and Ineligibility.\n\nAs prescribed in our policy, the State disability\
      \ determination services (DDS) offices are required to check the LEIE at least\
      \ annually.  LEIE includes the names of providers excluded from Federally funded\
      \ health care programs.  The DDS offices also verify medical licenses, credentials,\
      \ and certifications with State medical boards.\n\nDeath Information:  As of\
      \ December 27, 2023, we have been providing DNP the full file of death information,\
      \ which includes all death reports we receive from the States.  The file of\
      \ death information is created from our internal records (i.e., the Numident)\
      \ and includes all death information that we process on a daily basis from acceptable\
      \ reporters (e.g., States, funeral homes, and family members).  The information\
      \ includes decedent’s name, Social Security number, date of birth, and date\
      \ of death.  Section 801 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act authorizes us\
      \ to provide DNP, on a reimbursable basis, the full file of death information\
      \ for three years (i.e., until December 27, 2026).\n\nPrisoner Information:\
      \  To comply with the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, we collaborated with Treasury’s\
      \ Bureau of Fiscal Service to provide current prisoner information.  Because\
      \ our PUPS is more complete than the data available via DNP, we use our internal\
      \ data to verify incarceration.\n"
  - Agency: SSS
    Agency_Name: Selective Service System
    Answer: Utilizing SAM.gov and the IPP system SSS has ensured that proper entities
      are identified and up to date with information input. This system has been utilized
      for the majority of non-government entity. This allows SSS to catch improper
      payment prior to them being initiated or even entered in most cases.
  - Agency: STATE
    Agency_Name: Department of State
    Answer: "The Department of State reviewed potential improper payments provided\
      \ by the Department of the Treasury as a result of submitting disbursed payments\
      \ through the Do Not Pay (DNP) portal. In 2024, the Treasury reviewed and disbursed\
      \ 1,531,627 payments totaling $17.2 billion paid by the Department through the\
      \ DNP portal. Potential matches were provided on a daily basis, comparing payments\
      \ to the public Death Master File (DMF) of the Social Security Administration\
      \ and the General Services Administration’s Excluded Parties List System (EPLS).\
      \ Through daily access via the Treasury DNP portal, the Department reviewed\
      \ 190,340 unmatchable payments, totaling $1.9 billion, and adjudicated 110 potential\
      \ erroneous payment matches as part of the post payment review process. \n\n\
      The Department continued to utilize the DNP portal’s DMF on a pre-payment basis\
      \ for all annuitant payments. At least twice each month the Department’s annuitant\
      \ database is screened against the DMF to identify deceased annuitants. All\
      \ matches are researched and if confirmed, payment to the annuitant is stopped\
      \ prior to processing the monthly annuity payment run. In 2024, there were 205,354\
      \ annuitant payments totaling $1.2 billion were reviewed against the DMF and\
      \ 248 payments totaling $6.5 million were stopped due to this initiative. This\
      \ process is successful in identifying deceased annuitants and ensuring improper\
      \ payments are not made. In addition, all annuity manual payments processed\
      \ through Treasury’s Secure Payment System are reviewed through the DMF online\
      \ search prior to making payment. \n\nFor non-Treasury Disbursing Office oversees\
      \ payments, payee information is checked against Treasury’s Office of Foreign\
      \ Assets Control’s (OFAC) list of Specially Designated Nationals (SDN). During\
      \ 2024, there were 2,658,190 payments totaling $10.3 billion of potential payment\
      \ matches reviewed resulting in no stopped payments.\n\nIn addition, Department\
      \ grants processed through the Health and Human Service (HHS) Payment Management\
      \ System (PMS) are included in a DNP review. HHS incorporated a review of the\
      \ DNP portal into their payment process to identify individuals or entities\
      \ with delinquent Federal non-tax debt, a recipient that is listed as deceased\
      \ on the DMF, and recipients excluded from doing business with the government.\
      \ In 2024, the Department was notified of no recipient that appeared ineligible\
      \ due to results of the DNP process. In addition, in 2024, seven recipient payments\
      \ were stopped as a result of the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). The TOP is\
      \ a centralized offset program, administered by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service’s\
      \ Debt Management Services, to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal\
      \ agencies and states (including past-due child support), in accordance with\
      \ 26 U.S.C. 6402(d) (collection of debts owed to Federal agencies), 31 U.S.C.\
      \ 3720A (reduction of tax refund by amount of the debts), and other applicable\
      \ laws.\n"
  - Agency: STB
    Agency_Name: Surface Transportation Board
    Answer: The STB does not use the Do Not Pay
  - Agency: TREASURY
    Agency_Name: Department of the Treasury
    Answer: "The use of Do Not Pay (DNP) is considered on Treasury's PIIA risk assessments.\
      \ In FY 24, all applicable fund groups who completed risk assessments used the\
      \ DNP portal prior to payment disbursement. \n\nAdditionally, the Vendor Supply\
      \ Group does continuous monitoring of all suppliers using the DNP portal. On\
      \ a weekly basis all active suppliers are submitted and processed in a nightly\
      \ run that returns a list of suppliers which matched against the database with\
      \ the results that could indicate they should not be paid by the government.\
      \ Most results seen are either deceased individuals or suppliers that have not\
      \ reviewed and approved their records in the SAM database within the past year\
      \ and therefore their SAM registration is not current. All suppliers found on\
      \ this list are immediately end dated so they cannot be used. On the rare occasion\
      \ the system indicated the vendor should not be paid for other reasons the Customer\
      \ Care accountant is notified to follow up with the Customer.\n\nIn addition,\
      \ on a regular daily basis the DNP portal is used to submit Disaster Recovery\
      \ Applicants."
  - Agency: TVA
    Agency_Name: Tennessee Valley Authority
    Answer: The Tennessee Valley Authority currently does not utilize the Do Not Pay
      Initiative as part of its processes.
  - Agency: USAGM
    Agency_Name: United States Agency for Global Media
    Answer: 'USAGM utilizes Treasury’s Payment Automation Manager (PAM) to vet payment
      date against the Social Security Administration (SSA) Death Master File (DMF),
      American InfoSource (AIS) Obituary and Probate, Department of Defense and Department
      of State data sources during Payment Integration (or at the time of payment).  All
      funds disbursed by the Department of Treasury go through Payment Integration,
      in which the DNP portal automatically matches all PAM files against the available
      death sources.  Additionally, USAGM loads the SAM file into the Momentum accounting
      system daily.  Any issues are identified when the file is loaded and resolved
      before payments are processed.

      '
  - Agency: USAID
    Agency_Name: Agency for International Development
    Answer: "The DNP Initiative has been a great tool for the agency in identifying\
      \ and reducing Improper Payments. By using several data sources to screen large\
      \ amounts of transactions/payments, it continues to help the agency reduce financial\
      \ burden and increase the efficiency to better serve our shareholders. \n\n\
      USAID is currently using the following databases: \nThe Death Master File (DMF)\
      \ of the Social Security Administration; \nThe General Services Administration’s\
      \ System for Award Management (SAM); and \nThe Debt Check Database for Treasury\
      \ (Debt Check). \n\nFor reporting purposes, the data in question includes the\
      \ following: \nPayments reviewed for IPs, which includes all payments screened\
      \ by the DNP Initiative or other USAID internal databases managed by USAID’s\
      \ OCFO as appropriate, and disbursed by, or on behalf of USAID; \nPayments stopped,\
      \ which includes payments intercepted or not disbursed because of the DNP Initiative;\
      \ and \nIPs reviewed and not stopped, which includes payments reviewed by the\
      \ DNP databases, disbursed, and later identified as improper. \n\n\nUSAID’s\
      \ OCFO plans to continue using the portal to adjudicate any DNP matches. However,\
      \ USAID would like to note that the DNP Initiative is an automated portal designed\
      \ to identify beneficiary matches for entitlements, which the Agency does not\
      \ disburse. \n\nSince FY 2015, USAID has reviewed  518,847 payments that totaled\
      \ $104.4  billion, using the DNP Initiative to conclude no confirmed improper\
      \ payments. \n"
  - Agency: USDA
    Agency_Name: Department of Agriculture
    Answer: USDA programs continue to utilize the “Portal” throughout the payment
      life cycle. All programs utilize the Portal during the pre-award step, most
      utilize pre-award and pre-payment, while a few programs utilize pre-award, pre-payment,
      and post-payment. The number of DNP search activities reached over 100% increase
      for FY 2024 (from 5,068 to 10,185). The Department's active users increased
      by approximately 88% from 1,869 in FY 2023 to 3,509 in FY 2024.
  - Agency: USITC
    Agency_Name: US International Trade Commission
    Answer: USITC uses the Do Not Pay Initiative to review payment eligibility for
      purposes of identifying and preventing improper payments. The USITC utilizes
      a Shared Service Provider (IBC) to host our financial systems.  IBC posts a
      Do Not Pay file into Oracle on a weekly basis for USITC review. IBC utilizes
      the Treasury Working System to perform online searches and screen payments against
      the Do Not Pay databases. USITC is notified of any flagged payments or items
      in need of adjudication. During FY 2024, USITC vendor payments totaled approximately
      $16.4M.  The Do Not Pay Initiative has neither identified a material amount
      nor realized a reduction of improper payments attributable to implementing the
      Do Not Pay Initiative capabilities. Rather, Do Not Pay Initiative implementation
      has proven that USITC has robust and effective internal controls over ensuring
      that eligible entities receive Federal funds.
  - Agency: VA
    Agency_Name: Department of Veterans Affairs
    Answer: VA fulfills the requirements of the Do Not Pay (DNP) Initiative and reviews
      payments against Payment Integrity Information Act (PIIA) required databases.
      VA utilizes the Treasury Working Systems (TWS) as appropriate. VA utilizes the
      TWS payment integration functionality. Payment integration consists of matching
      payments against available TWS data sources at the time of disbursement. Specifically,
      VA submits the Payment Automation Manager (PAM) file to the Department of Treasury
      for matching against the TWS data sources. The Department of Treasury uses DNP
      to perform matching of PAM Payments to TWS data sources and provides a PAM count
      of stopped payments and/or count of matched payments. The TWS match results
      are available in the TWS the next business day for adjudication. VA downloads
      TWS match results and review and adjudication of TWS matches are performed in
      accordance with VA processes and procedures. There are two reports available
      for download in the TWS. The Payment Activity Report (PAR) provides VA a summary
      of the PAM payments, matches, and adjudication statuses. The Adjudication Summary
      report provides VA the summary adjudication status results each month. VA adjudicates
      matches within the TWS on a monthly basis. Therefore, VA is only able to use
      the TWS to confirm improper payments after the payment has been already made
      and prevent future improper payments once due process is provided for payment
      integration. In addition, VA utilizes single search and continuous monitoring
      when appropriate, unless other already established processes outside the TWS
      exists. Reports are not currently available from TWS on the results of single
      search and continuous monitoring.
  Stats:
    dpa1_no: 18.64406779661017
    dpa1_yes: 81.35593220338983
    dpa2_no: 31.25
    dpa2_yes: 68.75
    dpa3_annually: 12.5
    dpa3_daily: 4.166666666666667
    dpa3_monthly: 16.666666666666668
    dpa3_na: 60.416666666666664
    dpa3_quarterly: 0.0
    dpa3_weekly: 6.25
Fiscal_Year: 2024
Page_Name: '2024_9'
Report_Id: '9'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: Summary of Report Requirements from 31 U.S.C. § 3354
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 0
  Text: (5) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall
    submit to Congress an annual report, which may be included as part of another
    report submitted to Congress by the Director, regarding the operation of the Do
    Not Pay Initiative, which shall—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (A) include an evaluation of whether the Do Not Pay Initiative has reduced
    improper payments or improper awards; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (B) provide the frequency of corrections or identification of incorrect information.
  Type: REGULAR
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2024_9
title: OMB Do Not Pay Initiative Report
---
