---
Agency: HUD
Agency_Name: Department of Housing and Urban Development
Fiscal_Year: 2024
High_Priority_Links: []
Page_Name: 2024_HUD_2
Report_Id: '2'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: Summary of Report Requirements from 31 U.S.C. § 3352(b)(2)
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 0
  Text: (2) REPORT ON HIGH-PRIORITY IMPROPER PAYMENTS.—...each executive agency with
    a (high-priority) program ...shall on an annual basis submit...a report on that
    (high-priority) program.
  Type: ITALICIZED
- Indent: 1
  Text: (B) CONTENTS.— Each report submitted ...
  Type: ITALICIZED
- Indent: 2
  Text: (i) shall describe any action the executive agency—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 3
  Text: (I) has taken or plans to take to recover improper payments (for the High-Priority
    Program); and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 3
  Text: (II) intends to take to prevent future improper payments (for the High-Priority
    Program)
  Type: REGULAR
SurveyData:
- Answer: "Office of Healthy Homes Lead Hazard Control - Lead Hazard Reduction\nDuring\
    \ grant execution, the Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)\
    \ reviews grantee invoices, vouchers and supporting documentation. If an improper\
    \ payment is identified, the Government Technical Representative (GTR) or the\
    \ COR, as applicable, provides fund recipients with documentation of the determination\
    \ of the improper payment, the regulatory, grant-specific, and/or contractual\
    \ basis for recovering the improper payment, a due date for recoupment, and a\
    \ due-process opportunity to appeal. The appeal, if made, goes to the Grants Division\
    \ Director (for grants) or the COR (for contracts), as applicable. Should the\
    \ request not be appealed, or the appeal denied, and the funding recipient did\
    \ not refund the improper payment, the matter would be referred to the OGC for\
    \ action. \nDuring the close-out of a grant, if it is determined that a financial\
    \ error occurred, the grantee is asked to provide an explanation for the problem\
    \ and, if required by the GTR, the grantee submits a check to resolve the financial\
    \ shortfall. The COR forwards the check and a letter of explanation to the Budget\
    \ Officer for the recapturing of funds. \nIn addition, the GTR includes a copy\
    \ of the check and the letter of explanation with the close-out package to the\
    \ Grants Officer. The Grants Officer documents the returned funds on form HUD-1044\
    \ (Assistance Award/Assistance). OLHCHH’s process assures quality spending and\
    \ monitoring for reimbursable funding. The likelihood of improper reimbursements\
    \ are low due to several reasons. OLHCHH is a reimbursement program; the funds\
    \ distributed are for services that have already been completed and invoiced.\
    \ Additionally, every three months, grantees submit information on work performed\
    \ and provide a financial statement using the Federal Financial Report (SF-425),\
    \ HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and supporting documentation. The SF-425, HUD-Part 3\
    \ Budget form, and the LOCCS VRS Request Voucher for Grant Payment (form HUD-27053)\
    \ must match data in LOCCS and all totals must be the same. Under remote monitoring,\
    \ a GTR performs a review to ensure accuracy, as needed. On-site monitoring is\
    \ conducted once a year after a risk analysis is completed and/or high-risk is\
    \ determined for each grantee. Poor performing grantees are required to submit\
    \ weekly or monthly reports. During grant execution, the OLHCHH reviews grantee\
    \ invoices, vouchers and supporting documentation. If an improper payment is identified,\
    \ the GTR or the COR, as applicable, provides fund recipients with documentation\
    \ of the determination of the improper payment, the regulatory, grant-specific,\
    \ and/or contractual basis for recovering the improper payment, a due date for\
    \ recoupment, and a due-process opportunity to appeal. The appeal, if made, goes\
    \ to the Grants Division Director (for grants) or the COR (for contracts), as\
    \ applicable. Should the request not be appealed, or the appeal denied, and the\
    \ funding recipient did not refund the improper payment, the matter would be referred\
    \ to the OGC for action. \nDuring the close-out of a grant, if it is determined\
    \ that a financial error occurred, the grantee is asked to provide an explanation\
    \ for the problem and, if required by the GTR, the grantee submits a check to\
    \ resolve the financial shortfall. The COR forwards the check and a letter of\
    \ explanation to the Budget Officer for the recapturing of funds. \nIn addition,\
    \ the GTR includes a copy of the check and the letter of explanation with the\
    \ close-out package to the Grants Officer. The Grants Officer documents the returned\
    \ funds on form HUD-1044 (Assistance Award/Assistance). OLHCHH’s process assures\
    \ quality spending and monitoring for reimbursable funding. The risks of improper\
    \ reimbursements are low due to several reasons. OLHCHH is a reimbursement program;\
    \ the funds distributed are for services that have already been completed and\
    \ invoiced. Additionally, every three months, grantees submit information on work\
    \ performed and provide a financial statement using the Federal Financial Report\
    \ (SF-425), HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and supporting documentation. The SF-425,\
    \ HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and the LOCCS VRS Request Voucher for Grant Payment\
    \ (form HUD-27053) must match data in LOCCS and all totals must be the same. Under\
    \ remote monitoring, a GTR performs a review to ensure accuracy, as needed. On-site\
    \ monitoring is conducted once a year after a risk analysis is completed and/or\
    \ high-risk is determined for each grantee. Poor performing grantees are required\
    \ to submit weekly or monthly reports.\n\nSalaries and Expenses\nFor the Payroll,\
    \ Benefits and Retirement Division (PBRD), The Office of the Chief Human Capital\
    \ Officer (OCHCO) reviews the unpaid report to ensure all HUD employees are paid\
    \ based on their certified timecard for the Personnel Office Identifier (POI)\
    \ 4408. If erroneous payments were made due to an error in personnel and benefits,\
    \ OCHCO then takes the necessary action(s) to rectify the mistake. For example,\
    \ OCHCO collaborates with the BFS and the Department of Agriculture’s National\
    \ Finance Center (NFC) to run all the necessary reports to determine where the\
    \ discrepancy was made. Once the source has been identified, OCHCO corrects the\
    \ issue or determines if it is feasible to correct the improper payment. Through\
    \ the PBRD quality review process, overpayments are identified and validated.\
    \ Once validated and corrected through the NFC database, the debt is generated,\
    \ and the employee is notified of the indebtedness. After due process, the collection\
    \ process is initiated. \nAlso, the Human Resources (HR) Division performs a quality\
    \ review based on the personnel data generated from the NFC FOCUS report or NFC\
    \ Reporting Center application for personnel and benefits actions. The report\
    \ data is used to determine, personnel data or duty locations which will cause\
    \ an overpayment for the employee. If so, the History Correction Update Processing\
    \ (HCUP) system is used to correct the error, which will automatically generate\
    \ a bill if it is within twenty-six (26) pay periods. Outside of the pay period\
    \ timeframe, HR will manually calculate the amount owed and enter the data to\
    \ be submitted to NFC via the Special Payroll Processing System (SPPS). The employee\
    \ will be informed of the indebtedness; and have an opportunity to setup a payment\
    \ plan. \nAs part of the bi-weekly payroll projection process, OCFO-Budget runs\
    \ reports from OBI’s repository of payroll reports and flags any payroll corrections\
    \ or unusual payroll activities for program budget offices. Upon request and on\
    \ an ad-hoc basis, OCFO-Budget provides assistance in the correction of improper\
    \ payroll payments by running reports from OBI’s repository of payroll reports\
    \ (Cost and Hours report) and providing data regarding payroll corrections to\
    \ program budget offices and Treasury’s ARC. \nThe Administrative Control of Funds\
    \ Policies Handbook outlines procedures and points to additional guidance program\
    \ offices follow that can lead to the identification, recovery, and prevention\
    \ of future improper payments.\n\nMultiFamily Notes\nThe MFNSB is responsible\
    \ for overseeing all fiscal loan servicing activities for MF and Healthcare mortgage\
    \ notes assigned to the Secretary. MF and Healthcare notes include both the Mutual\
    \ Mortgage Insurance /Cooperative Management Housing Insurance and General Insurance\
    \ /Special Risk Insurance for financing and liquidating accounts. The FHA has\
    \ contracted with a Servicing and Accounting Contractor and utilizes their proprietary-owned\
    \ system to maintain records for all transactions relating to the assignment,\
    \ servicing, and disposition of the MF notes portfolio. The MFNSB is responsible\
    \ for overseeing all fiscal loan servicing activities for MF and Healthcare mortgage\
    \ notes assigned to the Secretary. MF and Healthcare notes include both the Mutual\
    \ Mortgage Insurance /Cooperative Management Housing Insurance and General Insurance\
    \ /Special Risk Insurance for financing and liquidating accounts. The FHA has\
    \ contracted with a Servicing and Accounting Contractor and utilizes their proprietary-owned\
    \ system to maintain records for all transactions relating to the assignment,\
    \ servicing, and disposition of the MF notes portfolio. Each note is serviced\
    \ in accordance with the mortgage and mortgage note documents. Servicing activities\
    \ include billing, collections, disbursements, escrow management, and processing\
    \ of terminations. Servicing activities are performed daily until termination\
    \ of the note from the system. \nTaxes and R4R escrows are incorporated into the\
    \ note and managed by the note. Amounts collected are all pre-determined by the\
    \ language within the note itself. Payment amounts (R4R costs, insurance, taxes\
    \ and miscellaneous A/P) are calculated based on invoices submitted. \nAll disbursements\
    \ are initially processed by the contractor. However, the Multifamily Notes Servicing\
    \ Branch (MFNSB) staff have final approval on all disbursements. No disbursements\
    \ are made by the contractor without approval from the MFNSB. Disbursements are\
    \ approved by HUD. \nEach payment request has an invoice and physical approval.\
    \ Separation of duties is maintained for the disbursement process. Contract staff\
    \ create the transmittal to allow the disbursement; a second contract staff approves\
    \ the transmittal; a third contract staff creates the disbursement. None of the\
    \ staff have the authority to perform any other duty in the payment process. Upon\
    \ receipt of the disbursement request from the contractor, it is reviewed by MFNSB\
    \ staff to ensure the requested disbursement is correct and in compliance with\
    \ HUD guidelines. Employees conduct data matching analytics to verify key information\
    \ for disbursements such as project name, address, FHA number, iREMS number, and\
    \ dollar amount. For payment schedules the Tax ID Number, Routing Number, Deposit\
    \ Account Number, and Dollar Amount are validated against supporting documentation\
    \ to ensure accuracy. \nOnce the disbursements are reviewed and approved by MFNSB,\
    \ they are sent to the Cash Management Branch (CMB) for certification and processing.\
    \ Payments are disbursed directly to the vendor responsible for collecting the\
    \ disbursement and applying the funds to the expense. Contract staff perform daily\
    \ banking functions to ensure all checks have been cashed and ACH transactions\
    \ processed. \nOnce the Certifying Officer in CMB certifies the schedule for payment,\
    \ CMB sends the Secure Payment System (SPS) Report via email to the MFNSB. Staff\
    \ compares the schedule payment package to the daily SPS Report and to the Goal\
    \ Report Agency Location Codes (ALC) Payment Details to ensure the payment information\
    \ is correct. In addition, all cash activities are reconciled through monthly\
    \ accounting reconciliations. These payments are also post payment checked \n\
    On a monthly basis, the MFNSB Chief conducts random sampling of payment schedules.\
    \ A sampling of 20% of paid schedules is selected and reviewed for accuracy of\
    \ information and payment. There have been no inaccuracies or overpayments cited.\
    \ In the event of an overpayment of taxes or hazard insurance, the contractor\
    \ will work with the tax authority or insurance provider to recoup the overpayment.\
    \ If the contractor is unable to recover the funds they will escalate the issue\
    \ to MFNSB, which will work with the account executive, the Office of General\
    \ Counsel, and the program area to ensure the overpayment is recaptured. In the\
    \ event of an overpayment of R4R, the contractor will work with the management\
    \ agent to recoup the overpayment. If the management agent fails to return the\
    \ overpayment within 30 days, MFNSB will notify the account executive and program\
    \ area. The overpayment will be included in the next scheduled billing statement\
    \ and the management agent will be issued a formal notification of the action.\n\
    \nFederal Housing Administration\nThe Office of Housing-Federal Housing Administration’s\
    \ (HSNG–FHA) recovery audit program is part of its overall program of effective\
    \ internal control over payments. Internal control policies and procedures establishes\
    \ a system to monitor improper payments and their causes, and includes controls\
    \ and actions for detecting, preventing, and recovering improper payments. On\
    \ a recurring basis, these programs generate reports that identify potentially\
    \ duplicate disbursements. These disbursements are researched, and recovery actions\
    \ are initiated for payments deemed improper. As part of the recapture audit plan,\
    \ internal control documents and files are reviewed, and post claim reviews are\
    \ performed.\nUnder Title I and Other Debt Collection Guidance Handbook 4740.2,\
    \ the Financial Operation Center (FOC) is primarily responsible for generic debt\
    \ collection and customer service activities, including responding to debtor inquiries\
    \ regarding pay-off, payment plans, compromises, disputes, and appeals. The debt\
    \ referral package primarily consists of copies of legal documents, mortgages,\
    \ deeds of trust, judgments and other recorded lien documents, lien assignment\
    \ documents, repayment agreements, credit reports, correspondence to/from debtors,\
    \ and compromise agreements and supporting documents.\nThe FOC is responsible\
    \ for managing the business operations for the Title I loan program, which includes\
    \ registering and endorsing loans for insurance, billing and collecting premiums,\
    \ and examining claims for loss and approving them for payment. The FOC is also\
    \ responsible for performing the debt collection and servicing activities for\
    \ Title I Notes (defaulted Title I loans) and generic debts (other FHA debts).\n\
    The Title I program authorizes HUD to insure lenders against default on loans\
    \ used to finance property improvements and to purchase manufactured homes. Lenders\
    \ are required to pay premiums covering the insurance of their loans and submit\
    \ applications for insurance benefits for defaulted loans. HUD is required to\
    \ collect the unpaid loan balance, including eligible expenses, from the defaulted\
    \ borrower.\nThe FOC’s Title I Insurance Processing Branch (TIIPB) is responsible\
    \ for evaluating and approving lender applications for insurance benefits. The\
    \ lender’s application must include loan information and any documentation necessary\
    \ for the TIIPB to calculate a claim payment. There are three types of claim:\
    \ initial, resubmitted, and supplemental. An initial claim is a first submission.\
    \ A resubmitted claim is one that the TIIPB had previously denied. A supplemental\
    \ claim is an additional claim for the same loan when the lender finds documentation\
    \ for expenses not included in the initial claim. TIIPB support staff establish\
    \ the claim in the Title I Insurance and Claims System (TIIS/F72). The process\
    \ includes assigning a claim number, entering the date the claim was received,\
    \ and assigning the claim to a TIIPB examiner. The examiner conducts a full review\
    \ of the claim to determine whether the loan complies with Title I underwriting\
    \ and servicing requirements and whether expenses claimed by the lender are supported\
    \ by the documentation provided. If these conditions are satisfied, the examiner\
    \ processes the claim calculation and authorization for payment in TIIS/F72. TIIS/F72\
    \ processes the payments authorized on the same day in a single batch file, sends\
    \ the file to Treasury’s Payment Application Modernization system, and sends another\
    \ file to the Cash Management Branch to authorize the Treasury disbursement. TIIS/F72\
    \ sends a file of paid claims to the Debt Collection and Management System – Title\
    \ I (DCAMS-TI/F71), which converts the paid claims to notes receivable. The FOC’s\
    \ Asset Recovery Division (ARD) is responsible for pursuing collection against\
    \ the debtor (defaulted borrower).\nThe TIIPB conducts quality reviews of paid\
    \ Title I claims to ensure consistent processing and examination quality. Each\
    \ month, the TIIPB Branch Chief randomly selects 10% of paid claims for review.\
    \ The Branch Chief either reviews the claim themselves or assigns them to examiners\
    \ for a peer review. The reviewer conducts a full examination of the claim and\
    \ reports whether the claim payment was conforming (compliant/no deficiencies),\
    \ deficient (minor issues to address), unacceptable (serious issues to address),\
    \ or mitigated (issues found but readily resolved). The outcomes of quality reviews\
    \ are documented in both the Case Notes screen of TIIS/F72 and in the Title I\
    \ Quality Reviews folder of the FOC’s SharePoint site.\nIf the review identified\
    \ a deficiency that resulted in an overpaid claim, the TIIPB Branch Chief or examiner\
    \ will issue a request to the lender for a full (for an unacceptable claim) or\
    \ partial (for a deficient claim) repurchase of the loan. The request instructs\
    \ the lender to repurchase the loan by remitting payment to a designated lockbox\
    \ within 30 days or to ask for a reconsideration of the repurchase request within\
    \ 10 days. If the lender fails to submit documentation that satisfactorily resolves\
    \ the deficiency or to remit payment within the established timeframes, TIIPB\
    \ issues a repurchase demand which gives the lender 30 days to remit the repurchase\
    \ funds and informs the lender of the actions HUD will take if the funds aren’t\
    \ remitted, including transferring the unpaid repurchase to the FOC’s ARD for\
    \ delinquent debt collection, which includes referral to the Treasury Offset Program\
    \ (TOP) for administrative offset.\nBoth paid and unpaid repurchase requests and\
    \ demands involve coordination between the FOC’s TIIPB and ARD. The ARD ensures\
    \ that the Title I Note receivable is reclassified as a full or partial repurchase.\
    \ Payments for full and partial repurchases are sent to the Title I Notes lockbox\
    \ which transmits a collection file to DCAMS-TI/F71 to credit the funds to the\
    \ Title I Note receivable associated with the claim. The ARD notifies the TIIPB\
    \ when repurchase funds are received and the TIIPB updates the claim record in\
    \ TIIS/F72 (subfunction J04). For full repurchases, the ARD closes the Title I\
    \ Note receivable as repurchased. Before closing out the receivable, the ARD will\
    \ issue the debtor (defaulted Title I borrower) a refund for any non-repurchase\
    \ collections received. The TIIPB returns the original claim binder to the lender\
    \ along with an executed reassignment of the Title I promissory note and lien,\
    \ if applicable.\nUnpaid full or partial repurchase requests and demands are transferred\
    \ to the ARD for delinquent debt collection. The ARD establishes a Title I Repurchase\
    \ receivable in the Debt Collection and Asset Management System – Generic Debt\
    \ (DCAMS-GD/F71A), which initiates the collection process by issuing an automated\
    \ demand letter describing the debt and instructing the lender to remit payment\
    \ in full within 30 days or contact the designated ARD Debt Servicing Representative\
    \ (DSR) to request a plan to repay the debt in installments. If the lender does\
    \ not pay the debt in full or enter a repayment plan within 30 days, DCAMS-GD/F71A\
    \ issues a Notice of Intent (NOI) to Collect by Administrative Offset. The NOI\
    \ notifies the lender that HUD intends to refer the debt to the TOP, describes\
    \ the TOP process for administrative offset of federal payments, and provides\
    \ the lender with steps to take to contest the basis of the debt or the amount\
    \ demanded by filing an appeal with HUD’s Board of Appeals (BOA) within 65 days.\
    \ If the lender files an appeal, DCAMS-GD/F71A suspends referral to TOP pending\
    \ a decision and order from the BOA administrative law judge. (BOA adjudicates\
    \ appeals by gathering and evaluating statements and documents from both parties.)\
    \ If the BOA judge issues a decision and order declaring the debt unenforceable,\
    \ the ARD closes the debt as unenforceable and notifies the TIIPB. The TIIPB will\
    \ reverse the pending repurchase in TIIS/F72. If the decision and order results\
    \ in a dismissal of the lender’s appeal, the DSR updates debt status in DCAMS-GD/F71A\
    \ making the debt eligible for referral to TOP. DCAMS-GD/F71A refers eligible\
    \ debts that are 121 or more days delinquent to TOP and the Treasury Cross-Servicing\
    \ Program. DCAMS-GD/F71A also reports lenders to commercial credit reporting agencies\
    \ (Dun & Bradstreet, Experian, and Equifax).\nThe TIIPB may, rather than transfer\
    \ the unpaid repurchase to the ARD for delinquent debt collection, pursue internal\
    \ offset of payments on subsequent claims submitted by the lender. In most cases,\
    \ however, it’s more effective to transfer the debt to the ARD, since any federal\
    \ payment made to the lender, including Title I claim payments, will be collected\
    \ through TOP.\nCollections, both voluntary and involuntary, received on a Title\
    \ Repurchase debt are credited to the account. When a debt is paid in full, the\
    \ ARD makes entries in DCAMS-GD/F71A to close out the debt as paid in full and\
    \ to close out the Title I Note receivable as unenforceable. The TIIPB makes entries\
    \ in TIIS/F72 (subfunction J04) to acknowledge satisfaction of the repurchase\
    \ demand and returns the original claim binder to the lender along with an executed\
    \ reassignment of the Title I Promissory Note and lien, if applicable.\n If the\
    \ ARD concludes that the Title I Repurchase debt is uncollectible, it takes steps\
    \ to close out the debt in DCAMS-GD/F71A, which will issue an IRS Form 1099-C\
    \ to the lender and report the debt accordingly to the IRS. The TIIPB will pursue\
    \ secondary recovery activities on the uncollectible repurchase by internally\
    \ offsetting future claims payments to the lender or blocking payments on subsequent\
    \ claims submitted by the lender. The TIIPB may also refer the lender to FHA’s\
    \ Mortgagee Review Board for sanctions\nThe Debt Collection Asset Management System\
    \ (DCAMS) is the application used to support the generic debt collection process.\
    \ DCAMS is designed to automatically send collection letters, report delinquent\
    \ debt to credit bureaus and HUD’s Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System\
    \ (CAIVRS), assess penalties and administrative costs, and refer eligible debts\
    \ to the TOP and Cross-Servicing. Based on predefined criteria and the status\
    \ of that case as reflected in DCAMS data fields (not later than 180 days after\
    \ the demand letter), DCAMS is consistently updated to prevent improper referral\
    \ for TOP offset.\nFor internal offsets, over-claimed amounts (negative claims)\
    \ occur when the mortgagee owes FHA. The Single-Family Claims Branch (SFCB) sends\
    \ billing letters to lenders for the excess amounts claimed and tracks the receivables\
    \ using the Accounts Receivables Sub-system (ARS). Receivables are established\
    \ in SFCB’s ARS and identified by an FHA case number. Each FHA case number is\
    \ further identified by Section of the Act (which is linked to the appropriate\
    \ fund) and endorsement date. This later date identifies the cohort year. The\
    \ Holder of record to which the claim funds were originally disbursed is identified\
    \ in ARS as the debtor, by default. When the receivable is subsequently liquidated\
    \ by funds remitted by a Mortgagee or by offset, the collected amount is posted\
    \ to the previously identified FHA case number, Section of the Act, and cohort\
    \ year.\nIf a payment is not received from a lender within 90 days, the receivable\
    \ is offset against subsequent claims by the lender until the full amount of the\
    \ receivable is satisfied. If a receivable is not satisfied within 120-150 days,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC in Albany, NY for enforced collection actions. At\
    \ that time, the FOC officially confirms acceptance of the transfer of an aged\
    \ delinquent debt, and that receivables have been removed from the ARS with the\
    \ notation that it has been referred to the FOC for recovery.\nAnother avenue\
    \ by which improper payments are recaptured is through Post Claim Reviews for\
    \ title II Single Family Insurance Claims. A statistical sample of settled claims\
    \ is reviewed for compliance with FHA servicing and claim filing requirements.\
    \ A report on findings, is prepared and issued to the individual mortgagee. Mortgagees\
    \ can refute the findings by providing additional documents before a final report\
    \ is issued. If the Mortgagee chooses to pay the monetary findings prior to HUD’s\
    \ issuance of the final report, those funds are deposited to ARS, which applies\
    \ them to the Mortgage Insurance (MI) fund. Upon issuance of the final report,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC which establishes it as a receivable and tracks it\
    \ until paid in full. If a lender is overpaid on a Multifamily claim, the Multifamily\
    \ Claims Branch will demand the overage back from the lender, which is usually\
    \ resolved within 30 days of final settlement. The mortgagee either returns the\
    \ overpaid funds or files a supplemental claim. If the overpayment is not resolved\
    \ within the 30-day or 60-day period after final settlement, the reviewer sends\
    \ a follow-up letter at the end of each period advising the mortgagee of the penalties\
    \ and interest assessed. If still not resolved after 90 days, the overpayment\
    \ is electronically transferred to HUD’s FOC in Albany, New York for collection.\
    \ Lastly, for Treasury Cross-Servicing, the collection of generic debt is governed\
    \ by the Debt Collection Improvement Act and HUD policies (Title I and Other Debt\
    \ Collection Guidance 4740.2). The Act requires federal agencies to refer eligible\
    \ delinquent debts to Treasury (for Cross-Servicing and TOP) when the debt is\
    \ 120 days delinquent.\nThe Treasury’s TOP allows federal agencies to report delinquent\
    \ non-tax debt to the BFS. BFS performs computer matching with disbursement data\
    \ and processes an offset when an appropriate match is determined. After referral,\
    \ Treasury and its private collection agencies are responsible for contacting\
    \ the debtor to collect the payment of the debt. The Treasury’s Cross-Servicing\
    \ is a process used by BFS to refer the debt collection to a private collection\
    \ agency, among other actions, to collect delinquent debts on behalf of Federal\
    \ Agencies.\nThe FOC’s recapture process establishes receivables in DCAMS and\
    \ issues a demand notice to the debtor(s). If the debt remains unpaid, DCAMS issues\
    \ a “Notice of Intent” warning regarding enforced collection measures and informs\
    \ the debtor regarding their due process rights. DCAMS automatically reports information\
    \ to credit bureaus and CAIVRS. Penalty and administrative cost charges are also\
    \ automatically assessed if warranted.\nIf the debt remains unpaid, it is referred\
    \ to Treasury (within 180 days) for offset via the government-wide TOP and for\
    \ direct collection action by Treasury and Treasury contracted private collection\
    \ agencies. Treasury also initiates referral to the Department of Justice (DOJ)\
    \ for civil litigation and/or initiates Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG)\
    \ action if they deem such action to be appropriate.\nIf Treasury’s Cross-Servicing\
    \ action is not successful, Treasury “returns” the debt to the FOC. If older than\
    \ two years, the receivable is written-off and the case is reclassified “currently\
    \ not collectible.” The FOC keeps the case open if offset via TOP appears fruitful\
    \ or if other collection measures are applicable (e.g., AWG action by HUD). Otherwise,\
    \ the FOC terminates collection action, closes the case, and the system issues\
    \ an IRS Form 1099C “Cancellation of Debt,” the following January if appropriate.\
    \ Write-off, Termination, close-out, and 1099C issuance can also occur at any\
    \ point in the above collection cycle if determined appropriate (e.g., debtor\
    \ is discharged as bankrupt).\nCollections from debtors to HUD go to the Treasury\
    \ Lockbox Network or Pay.gov. Collections from debtors to Treasury or DOJ come\
    \ to HUD via interagency transfer (i.e., Intra-Governmental Payment and Collection\
    \ (IPAC)). No matter the route, all payments are posted to the receivable in DCAMS.\n"
  Heading: Methods Used to Recover Improper Payments Identified in Recovery Audits
  Key: ara2_1
  SortOrder: 0
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
SurveyName: Actions to Recover Improper Payments
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2024_HUD_2
title: Agency High-Priority Program Report
---
