---
Agency: HUD
Agency_Name: Department of Housing and Urban Development
Fiscal_Year: 2024
Page_Name: 2024_HUD_5
Report_Id: '5'
Requirements:
- Indent: 0
  Text: Summary of Report Requirements from 31 U.S.C. § 3352(e)
  Type: BOLD
- Indent: 0
  Text: e) REPORTS ON ACTIONS TO RECOVER IMPROPER PAYMENTS.—... the head of the executive
    agency shall provide ...a report on all actions the executive agency is taking
    to recover the improper payments (identified in a recovery audit) ..including—
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (1) a discussion of the methods used by the executive agency to recover improper
    payments;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (2) the amounts recovered, outstanding, and determined to not be collectable,
    including the percent those amounts represent of the total improper payments of
    the executive agency;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (3) if a determination has been made that certain improper payments are not
    collectable, a justification of that determination;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (4) an aging schedule of the amounts outstanding;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (5) a summary of how recovered amounts have been disposed of;
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (6) a discussion of any conditions giving rise to improper payments and how
    those conditions are being resolved; and
  Type: REGULAR
- Indent: 1
  Text: (7) if the executive agency has determined ...that performing recovery audits
    for any applicable program or activity is not cost-effective, a justification
    for that determination.
  Type: REGULAR
SurveyData:
- Answer: 'In March 1985, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) implemented
    an automated payment system for claiming Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
    single family mortgage insurance benefits.  This is an on-line database management
    system with control exercised primarily on an exception basis. The system was
    designed to speed the payment of mortgagees’ claims, reduce paperwork burdens,
    enhance the level of control, and improve service.  The integrity of this automated
    claims processing system is dependent on mortgagee compliance with HUD’s claim
    processing requirements.  Expenses are reported by category on the claim form
    and must be supported by a complete claim file maintained by the mortgagee.  Mortgagees
    are not required to furnish receipts for reimbursable expenses at the time insurance
    benefits are claimed.  Therefore at the time the claims are paid to the mortgagee,
    they would not have provided documentation to support all of the amounts and expenses
    claimed, as the amounts may have been automatically processed.  After the claims
    have been paid to the mortgagee, a post claim review will be conducted to audit
    the servicer''s portfolio to determine if any amounts are inappropriate, unsupported,
    or overpaid, and therefore is recovered in a post claim review.

    '
  Heading: Conditions Giving Rise to Improper Payments Identified in Recovery Audits,
    How Those Conditions are Being Resolved, & Methods Used to Recover Improper Payments
    Identified in Recovery Audits
  Key: arp17
  SortOrder: 0
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
- Answer: "Office of Healthy Homes Lead Hazard Control - Lead Hazard Reduction\nDuring\
    \ grant execution, the Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)\
    \ reviews grantee invoices, vouchers and supporting documentation. If an improper\
    \ payment is identified, the Government Technical Representative (GTR) or the\
    \ COR, as applicable, provides fund recipients with documentation of the determination\
    \ of the improper payment, the regulatory, grant-specific, and/or contractual\
    \ basis for recovering the improper payment, a due date for recoupment, and a\
    \ due-process opportunity to appeal. The appeal, if made, goes to the Grants Division\
    \ Director (for grants) or the COR (for contracts), as applicable. Should the\
    \ request not be appealed, or the appeal denied, and the funding recipient did\
    \ not refund the improper payment, the matter would be referred to the OGC for\
    \ action. \nDuring the close-out of a grant, if it is determined that a financial\
    \ error occurred, the grantee is asked to provide an explanation for the problem\
    \ and, if required by the GTR, the grantee submits a check to resolve the financial\
    \ shortfall. The COR forwards the check and a letter of explanation to the Budget\
    \ Officer for the recapturing of funds. \nIn addition, the GTR includes a copy\
    \ of the check and the letter of explanation with the close-out package to the\
    \ Grants Officer. The Grants Officer documents the returned funds on form HUD-1044\
    \ (Assistance Award/Assistance). OLHCHH’s process assures quality spending and\
    \ monitoring for reimbursable funding. The likelihood of improper reimbursements\
    \ are low due to several reasons. OLHCHH is a reimbursement program; the funds\
    \ distributed are for services that have already been completed and invoiced.\
    \ Additionally, every three months, grantees submit information on work performed\
    \ and provide a financial statement using the Federal Financial Report (SF-425),\
    \ HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and supporting documentation. The SF-425, HUD-Part 3\
    \ Budget form, and the LOCCS VRS Request Voucher for Grant Payment (form HUD-27053)\
    \ must match data in LOCCS and all totals must be the same. Under remote monitoring,\
    \ a GTR performs a review to ensure accuracy, as needed. On-site monitoring is\
    \ conducted once a year after a risk analysis is completed and/or high-risk is\
    \ determined for each grantee. Poor performing grantees are required to submit\
    \ weekly or monthly reports. During grant execution, the OLHCHH reviews grantee\
    \ invoices, vouchers and supporting documentation. If an improper payment is identified,\
    \ the GTR or the COR, as applicable, provides fund recipients with documentation\
    \ of the determination of the improper payment, the regulatory, grant-specific,\
    \ and/or contractual basis for recovering the improper payment, a due date for\
    \ recoupment, and a due-process opportunity to appeal. The appeal, if made, goes\
    \ to the Grants Division Director (for grants) or the COR (for contracts), as\
    \ applicable. Should the request not be appealed, or the appeal denied, and the\
    \ funding recipient did not refund the improper payment, the matter would be referred\
    \ to the OGC for action. \nDuring the close-out of a grant, if it is determined\
    \ that a financial error occurred, the grantee is asked to provide an explanation\
    \ for the problem and, if required by the GTR, the grantee submits a check to\
    \ resolve the financial shortfall. The COR forwards the check and a letter of\
    \ explanation to the Budget Officer for the recapturing of funds. \nIn addition,\
    \ the GTR includes a copy of the check and the letter of explanation with the\
    \ close-out package to the Grants Officer. The Grants Officer documents the returned\
    \ funds on form HUD-1044 (Assistance Award/Assistance). OLHCHH’s process assures\
    \ quality spending and monitoring for reimbursable funding. The risks of improper\
    \ reimbursements are low due to several reasons. OLHCHH is a reimbursement program;\
    \ the funds distributed are for services that have already been completed and\
    \ invoiced. Additionally, every three months, grantees submit information on work\
    \ performed and provide a financial statement using the Federal Financial Report\
    \ (SF-425), HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and supporting documentation. The SF-425,\
    \ HUD-Part 3 Budget form, and the LOCCS VRS Request Voucher for Grant Payment\
    \ (form HUD-27053) must match data in LOCCS and all totals must be the same. Under\
    \ remote monitoring, a GTR performs a review to ensure accuracy, as needed. On-site\
    \ monitoring is conducted once a year after a risk analysis is completed and/or\
    \ high-risk is determined for each grantee. Poor performing grantees are required\
    \ to submit weekly or monthly reports.\n\nSalaries and Expenses\nFor the Payroll,\
    \ Benefits and Retirement Division (PBRD), The Office of the Chief Human Capital\
    \ Officer (OCHCO) reviews the unpaid report to ensure all HUD employees are paid\
    \ based on their certified timecard for the Personnel Office Identifier (POI)\
    \ 4408. If erroneous payments were made due to an error in personnel and benefits,\
    \ OCHCO then takes the necessary action(s) to rectify the mistake. For example,\
    \ OCHCO collaborates with the BFS and the Department of Agriculture’s National\
    \ Finance Center (NFC) to run all the necessary reports to determine where the\
    \ discrepancy was made. Once the source has been identified, OCHCO corrects the\
    \ issue or determines if it is feasible to correct the improper payment. Through\
    \ the PBRD quality review process, overpayments are identified and validated.\
    \ Once validated and corrected through the NFC database, the debt is generated,\
    \ and the employee is notified of the indebtedness. After due process, the collection\
    \ process is initiated. \nAlso, the Human Resources (HR) Division performs a quality\
    \ review based on the personnel data generated from the NFC FOCUS report or NFC\
    \ Reporting Center application for personnel and benefits actions. The report\
    \ data is used to determine, personnel data or duty locations which will cause\
    \ an overpayment for the employee. If so, the History Correction Update Processing\
    \ (HCUP) system is used to correct the error, which will automatically generate\
    \ a bill if it is within twenty-six (26) pay periods. Outside of the pay period\
    \ timeframe, HR will manually calculate the amount owed and enter the data to\
    \ be submitted to NFC via the Special Payroll Processing System (SPPS). The employee\
    \ will be informed of the indebtedness; and have an opportunity to setup a payment\
    \ plan. \nAs part of the bi-weekly payroll projection process, OCFO-Budget runs\
    \ reports from OBI’s repository of payroll reports and flags any payroll corrections\
    \ or unusual payroll activities for program budget offices. Upon request and on\
    \ an ad-hoc basis, OCFO-Budget provides assistance in the correction of improper\
    \ payroll payments by running reports from OBI’s repository of payroll reports\
    \ (Cost and Hours report) and providing data regarding payroll corrections to\
    \ program budget offices and Treasury’s ARC. \nThe Administrative Control of Funds\
    \ Policies Handbook outlines procedures and points to additional guidance program\
    \ offices follow that can lead to the identification, recovery, and prevention\
    \ of future improper payments.\n\nMultiFamily Notes\nThe MFNSB is responsible\
    \ for overseeing all fiscal loan servicing activities for MF and Healthcare mortgage\
    \ notes assigned to the Secretary. MF and Healthcare notes include both the Mutual\
    \ Mortgage Insurance /Cooperative Management Housing Insurance and General Insurance\
    \ /Special Risk Insurance for financing and liquidating accounts. The FHA has\
    \ contracted with a Servicing and Accounting Contractor and utilizes their proprietary-owned\
    \ system to maintain records for all transactions relating to the assignment,\
    \ servicing, and disposition of the MF notes portfolio. The MFNSB is responsible\
    \ for overseeing all fiscal loan servicing activities for MF and Healthcare mortgage\
    \ notes assigned to the Secretary. MF and Healthcare notes include both the Mutual\
    \ Mortgage Insurance /Cooperative Management Housing Insurance and General Insurance\
    \ /Special Risk Insurance for financing and liquidating accounts. The FHA has\
    \ contracted with a Servicing and Accounting Contractor and utilizes their proprietary-owned\
    \ system to maintain records for all transactions relating to the assignment,\
    \ servicing, and disposition of the MF notes portfolio. Each note is serviced\
    \ in accordance with the mortgage and mortgage note documents. Servicing activities\
    \ include billing, collections, disbursements, escrow management, and processing\
    \ of terminations. Servicing activities are performed daily until termination\
    \ of the note from the system. \nTaxes and R4R escrows are incorporated into the\
    \ note and managed by the note. Amounts collected are all pre-determined by the\
    \ language within the note itself. Payment amounts (R4R costs, insurance, taxes\
    \ and miscellaneous A/P) are calculated based on invoices submitted. \nAll disbursements\
    \ are initially processed by the contractor. However, the Multifamily Notes Servicing\
    \ Branch (MFNSB) staff have final approval on all disbursements. No disbursements\
    \ are made by the contractor without approval from the MFNSB. Disbursements are\
    \ approved by HUD. \nEach payment request has an invoice and physical approval.\
    \ Separation of duties is maintained for the disbursement process. Contract staff\
    \ create the transmittal to allow the disbursement; a second contract staff approves\
    \ the transmittal; a third contract staff creates the disbursement. None of the\
    \ staff have the authority to perform any other duty in the payment process. Upon\
    \ receipt of the disbursement request from the contractor, it is reviewed by MFNSB\
    \ staff to ensure the requested disbursement is correct and in compliance with\
    \ HUD guidelines. Employees conduct data matching analytics to verify key information\
    \ for disbursements such as project name, address, FHA number, iREMS number, and\
    \ dollar amount. For payment schedules the Tax ID Number, Routing Number, Deposit\
    \ Account Number, and Dollar Amount are validated against supporting documentation\
    \ to ensure accuracy. \nOnce the disbursements are reviewed and approved by MFNSB,\
    \ they are sent to the Cash Management Branch (CMB) for certification and processing.\
    \ Payments are disbursed directly to the vendor responsible for collecting the\
    \ disbursement and applying the funds to the expense. Contract staff perform daily\
    \ banking functions to ensure all checks have been cashed and ACH transactions\
    \ processed. \nOnce the Certifying Officer in CMB certifies the schedule for payment,\
    \ CMB sends the Secure Payment System (SPS) Report via email to the MFNSB. Staff\
    \ compares the schedule payment package to the daily SPS Report and to the Goal\
    \ Report Agency Location Codes (ALC) Payment Details to ensure the payment information\
    \ is correct. In addition, all cash activities are reconciled through monthly\
    \ accounting reconciliations. These payments are also post payment checked \n\
    On a monthly basis, the MFNSB Chief conducts random sampling of payment schedules.\
    \ A sampling of 20% of paid schedules is selected and reviewed for accuracy of\
    \ information and payment. There have been no inaccuracies or overpayments cited.\
    \ In the event of an overpayment of taxes or hazard insurance, the contractor\
    \ will work with the tax authority or insurance provider to recoup the overpayment.\
    \ If the contractor is unable to recover the funds they will escalate the issue\
    \ to MFNSB, which will work with the account executive, the Office of General\
    \ Counsel, and the program area to ensure the overpayment is recaptured. In the\
    \ event of an overpayment of R4R, the contractor will work with the management\
    \ agent to recoup the overpayment. If the management agent fails to return the\
    \ overpayment within 30 days, MFNSB will notify the account executive and program\
    \ area. The overpayment will be included in the next scheduled billing statement\
    \ and the management agent will be issued a formal notification of the action.\n\
    \nFederal Housing Administration\nThe Office of Housing-Federal Housing Administration’s\
    \ (HSNG–FHA) recovery audit program is part of its overall program of effective\
    \ internal control over payments. Internal control policies and procedures establishes\
    \ a system to monitor improper payments and their causes, and includes controls\
    \ and actions for detecting, preventing, and recovering improper payments. On\
    \ a recurring basis, these programs generate reports that identify potentially\
    \ duplicate disbursements. These disbursements are researched, and recovery actions\
    \ are initiated for payments deemed improper. As part of the recapture audit plan,\
    \ internal control documents and files are reviewed, and post claim reviews are\
    \ performed.\nUnder Title I and Other Debt Collection Guidance Handbook 4740.2,\
    \ the Financial Operation Center (FOC) is primarily responsible for generic debt\
    \ collection and customer service activities, including responding to debtor inquiries\
    \ regarding pay-off, payment plans, compromises, disputes, and appeals. The debt\
    \ referral package primarily consists of copies of legal documents, mortgages,\
    \ deeds of trust, judgments and other recorded lien documents, lien assignment\
    \ documents, repayment agreements, credit reports, correspondence to/from debtors,\
    \ and compromise agreements and supporting documents.\nThe FOC is responsible\
    \ for managing the business operations for the Title I loan program, which includes\
    \ registering and endorsing loans for insurance, billing and collecting premiums,\
    \ and examining claims for loss and approving them for payment. The FOC is also\
    \ responsible for performing the debt collection and servicing activities for\
    \ Title I Notes (defaulted Title I loans) and generic debts (other FHA debts).\n\
    The Title I program authorizes HUD to insure lenders against default on loans\
    \ used to finance property improvements and to purchase manufactured homes. Lenders\
    \ are required to pay premiums covering the insurance of their loans and submit\
    \ applications for insurance benefits for defaulted loans. HUD is required to\
    \ collect the unpaid loan balance, including eligible expenses, from the defaulted\
    \ borrower.\nThe FOC’s Title I Insurance Processing Branch (TIIPB) is responsible\
    \ for evaluating and approving lender applications for insurance benefits. The\
    \ lender’s application must include loan information and any documentation necessary\
    \ for the TIIPB to calculate a claim payment. There are three types of claim:\
    \ initial, resubmitted, and supplemental. An initial claim is a first submission.\
    \ A resubmitted claim is one that the TIIPB had previously denied. A supplemental\
    \ claim is an additional claim for the same loan when the lender finds documentation\
    \ for expenses not included in the initial claim. TIIPB support staff establish\
    \ the claim in the Title I Insurance and Claims System (TIIS/F72). The process\
    \ includes assigning a claim number, entering the date the claim was received,\
    \ and assigning the claim to a TIIPB examiner. The examiner conducts a full review\
    \ of the claim to determine whether the loan complies with Title I underwriting\
    \ and servicing requirements and whether expenses claimed by the lender are supported\
    \ by the documentation provided. If these conditions are satisfied, the examiner\
    \ processes the claim calculation and authorization for payment in TIIS/F72. TIIS/F72\
    \ processes the payments authorized on the same day in a single batch file, sends\
    \ the file to Treasury’s Payment Application Modernization system, and sends another\
    \ file to the Cash Management Branch to authorize the Treasury disbursement. TIIS/F72\
    \ sends a file of paid claims to the Debt Collection and Management System – Title\
    \ I (DCAMS-TI/F71), which converts the paid claims to notes receivable. The FOC’s\
    \ Asset Recovery Division (ARD) is responsible for pursuing collection against\
    \ the debtor (defaulted borrower).\nThe TIIPB conducts quality reviews of paid\
    \ Title I claims to ensure consistent processing and examination quality. Each\
    \ month, the TIIPB Branch Chief randomly selects 10% of paid claims for review.\
    \ The Branch Chief either reviews the claim themselves or assigns them to examiners\
    \ for a peer review. The reviewer conducts a full examination of the claim and\
    \ reports whether the claim payment was conforming (compliant/no deficiencies),\
    \ deficient (minor issues to address), unacceptable (serious issues to address),\
    \ or mitigated (issues found but readily resolved). The outcomes of quality reviews\
    \ are documented in both the Case Notes screen of TIIS/F72 and in the Title I\
    \ Quality Reviews folder of the FOC’s SharePoint site.\nIf the review identified\
    \ a deficiency that resulted in an overpaid claim, the TIIPB Branch Chief or examiner\
    \ will issue a request to the lender for a full (for an unacceptable claim) or\
    \ partial (for a deficient claim) repurchase of the loan. The request instructs\
    \ the lender to repurchase the loan by remitting payment to a designated lockbox\
    \ within 30 days or to ask for a reconsideration of the repurchase request within\
    \ 10 days. If the lender fails to submit documentation that satisfactorily resolves\
    \ the deficiency or to remit payment within the established timeframes, TIIPB\
    \ issues a repurchase demand which gives the lender 30 days to remit the repurchase\
    \ funds and informs the lender of the actions HUD will take if the funds aren’t\
    \ remitted, including transferring the unpaid repurchase to the FOC’s ARD for\
    \ delinquent debt collection, which includes referral to the Treasury Offset Program\
    \ (TOP) for administrative offset.\nBoth paid and unpaid repurchase requests and\
    \ demands involve coordination between the FOC’s TIIPB and ARD. The ARD ensures\
    \ that the Title I Note receivable is reclassified as a full or partial repurchase.\
    \ Payments for full and partial repurchases are sent to the Title I Notes lockbox\
    \ which transmits a collection file to DCAMS-TI/F71 to credit the funds to the\
    \ Title I Note receivable associated with the claim. The ARD notifies the TIIPB\
    \ when repurchase funds are received and the TIIPB updates the claim record in\
    \ TIIS/F72 (subfunction J04). For full repurchases, the ARD closes the Title I\
    \ Note receivable as repurchased. Before closing out the receivable, the ARD will\
    \ issue the debtor (defaulted Title I borrower) a refund for any non-repurchase\
    \ collections received. The TIIPB returns the original claim binder to the lender\
    \ along with an executed reassignment of the Title I promissory note and lien,\
    \ if applicable.\nUnpaid full or partial repurchase requests and demands are transferred\
    \ to the ARD for delinquent debt collection. The ARD establishes a Title I Repurchase\
    \ receivable in the Debt Collection and Asset Management System – Generic Debt\
    \ (DCAMS-GD/F71A), which initiates the collection process by issuing an automated\
    \ demand letter describing the debt and instructing the lender to remit payment\
    \ in full within 30 days or contact the designated ARD Debt Servicing Representative\
    \ (DSR) to request a plan to repay the debt in installments. If the lender does\
    \ not pay the debt in full or enter a repayment plan within 30 days, DCAMS-GD/F71A\
    \ issues a Notice of Intent (NOI) to Collect by Administrative Offset. The NOI\
    \ notifies the lender that HUD intends to refer the debt to the TOP, describes\
    \ the TOP process for administrative offset of federal payments, and provides\
    \ the lender with steps to take to contest the basis of the debt or the amount\
    \ demanded by filing an appeal with HUD’s Board of Appeals (BOA) within 65 days.\
    \ If the lender files an appeal, DCAMS-GD/F71A suspends referral to TOP pending\
    \ a decision and order from the BOA administrative law judge. (BOA adjudicates\
    \ appeals by gathering and evaluating statements and documents from both parties.)\
    \ If the BOA judge issues a decision and order declaring the debt unenforceable,\
    \ the ARD closes the debt as unenforceable and notifies the TIIPB. The TIIPB will\
    \ reverse the pending repurchase in TIIS/F72. If the decision and order results\
    \ in a dismissal of the lender’s appeal, the DSR updates debt status in DCAMS-GD/F71A\
    \ making the debt eligible for referral to TOP. DCAMS-GD/F71A refers eligible\
    \ debts that are 121 or more days delinquent to TOP and the Treasury Cross-Servicing\
    \ Program. DCAMS-GD/F71A also reports lenders to commercial credit reporting agencies\
    \ (Dun & Bradstreet, Experian, and Equifax).\nThe TIIPB may, rather than transfer\
    \ the unpaid repurchase to the ARD for delinquent debt collection, pursue internal\
    \ offset of payments on subsequent claims submitted by the lender. In most cases,\
    \ however, it’s more effective to transfer the debt to the ARD, since any federal\
    \ payment made to the lender, including Title I claim payments, will be collected\
    \ through TOP.\nCollections, both voluntary and involuntary, received on a Title\
    \ Repurchase debt are credited to the account. When a debt is paid in full, the\
    \ ARD makes entries in DCAMS-GD/F71A to close out the debt as paid in full and\
    \ to close out the Title I Note receivable as unenforceable. The TIIPB makes entries\
    \ in TIIS/F72 (subfunction J04) to acknowledge satisfaction of the repurchase\
    \ demand and returns the original claim binder to the lender along with an executed\
    \ reassignment of the Title I Promissory Note and lien, if applicable.\n If the\
    \ ARD concludes that the Title I Repurchase debt is uncollectible, it takes steps\
    \ to close out the debt in DCAMS-GD/F71A, which will issue an IRS Form 1099-C\
    \ to the lender and report the debt accordingly to the IRS. The TIIPB will pursue\
    \ secondary recovery activities on the uncollectible repurchase by internally\
    \ offsetting future claims payments to the lender or blocking payments on subsequent\
    \ claims submitted by the lender. The TIIPB may also refer the lender to FHA’s\
    \ Mortgagee Review Board for sanctions\nThe Debt Collection Asset Management System\
    \ (DCAMS) is the application used to support the generic debt collection process.\
    \ DCAMS is designed to automatically send collection letters, report delinquent\
    \ debt to credit bureaus and HUD’s Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System\
    \ (CAIVRS), assess penalties and administrative costs, and refer eligible debts\
    \ to the TOP and Cross-Servicing. Based on predefined criteria and the status\
    \ of that case as reflected in DCAMS data fields (not later than 180 days after\
    \ the demand letter), DCAMS is consistently updated to prevent improper referral\
    \ for TOP offset.\nFor internal offsets, over-claimed amounts (negative claims)\
    \ occur when the mortgagee owes FHA. The Single-Family Claims Branch (SFCB) sends\
    \ billing letters to lenders for the excess amounts claimed and tracks the receivables\
    \ using the Accounts Receivables Sub-system (ARS). Receivables are established\
    \ in SFCB’s ARS and identified by an FHA case number. Each FHA case number is\
    \ further identified by Section of the Act (which is linked to the appropriate\
    \ fund) and endorsement date. This later date identifies the cohort year. The\
    \ Holder of record to which the claim funds were originally disbursed is identified\
    \ in ARS as the debtor, by default. When the receivable is subsequently liquidated\
    \ by funds remitted by a Mortgagee or by offset, the collected amount is posted\
    \ to the previously identified FHA case number, Section of the Act, and cohort\
    \ year.\nIf a payment is not received from a lender within 90 days, the receivable\
    \ is offset against subsequent claims by the lender until the full amount of the\
    \ receivable is satisfied. If a receivable is not satisfied within 120-150 days,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC in Albany, NY for enforced collection actions. At\
    \ that time, the FOC officially confirms acceptance of the transfer of an aged\
    \ delinquent debt, and that receivables have been removed from the ARS with the\
    \ notation that it has been referred to the FOC for recovery.\nAnother avenue\
    \ by which improper payments are recaptured is through Post Claim Reviews for\
    \ title II Single Family Insurance Claims. A statistical sample of settled claims\
    \ is reviewed for compliance with FHA servicing and claim filing requirements.\
    \ A report on findings, is prepared and issued to the individual mortgagee. Mortgagees\
    \ can refute the findings by providing additional documents before a final report\
    \ is issued. If the Mortgagee chooses to pay the monetary findings prior to HUD’s\
    \ issuance of the final report, those funds are deposited to ARS, which applies\
    \ them to the Mortgage Insurance (MI) fund. Upon issuance of the final report,\
    \ it is referred to the FOC which establishes it as a receivable and tracks it\
    \ until paid in full. If a lender is overpaid on a Multifamily claim, the Multifamily\
    \ Claims Branch will demand the overage back from the lender, which is usually\
    \ resolved within 30 days of final settlement. The mortgagee either returns the\
    \ overpaid funds or files a supplemental claim. If the overpayment is not resolved\
    \ within the 30-day or 60-day period after final settlement, the reviewer sends\
    \ a follow-up letter at the end of each period advising the mortgagee of the penalties\
    \ and interest assessed. If still not resolved after 90 days, the overpayment\
    \ is electronically transferred to HUD’s FOC in Albany, New York for collection.\
    \ Lastly, for Treasury Cross-Servicing, the collection of generic debt is governed\
    \ by the Debt Collection Improvement Act and HUD policies (Title I and Other Debt\
    \ Collection Guidance 4740.2). The Act requires federal agencies to refer eligible\
    \ delinquent debts to Treasury (for Cross-Servicing and TOP) when the debt is\
    \ 120 days delinquent.\nThe Treasury’s TOP allows federal agencies to report delinquent\
    \ non-tax debt to the BFS. BFS performs computer matching with disbursement data\
    \ and processes an offset when an appropriate match is determined. After referral,\
    \ Treasury and its private collection agencies are responsible for contacting\
    \ the debtor to collect the payment of the debt. The Treasury’s Cross-Servicing\
    \ is a process used by BFS to refer the debt collection to a private collection\
    \ agency, among other actions, to collect delinquent debts on behalf of Federal\
    \ Agencies.\nThe FOC’s recapture process establishes receivables in DCAMS and\
    \ issues a demand notice to the debtor(s). If the debt remains unpaid, DCAMS issues\
    \ a “Notice of Intent” warning regarding enforced collection measures and informs\
    \ the debtor regarding their due process rights. DCAMS automatically reports information\
    \ to credit bureaus and CAIVRS. Penalty and administrative cost charges are also\
    \ automatically assessed if warranted.\nIf the debt remains unpaid, it is referred\
    \ to Treasury (within 180 days) for offset via the government-wide TOP and for\
    \ direct collection action by Treasury and Treasury contracted private collection\
    \ agencies. Treasury also initiates referral to the Department of Justice (DOJ)\
    \ for civil litigation and/or initiates Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG)\
    \ action if they deem such action to be appropriate.\nIf Treasury’s Cross-Servicing\
    \ action is not successful, Treasury “returns” the debt to the FOC. If older than\
    \ two years, the receivable is written-off and the case is reclassified “currently\
    \ not collectible.” The FOC keeps the case open if offset via TOP appears fruitful\
    \ or if other collection measures are applicable (e.g., AWG action by HUD). Otherwise,\
    \ the FOC terminates collection action, closes the case, and the system issues\
    \ an IRS Form 1099C “Cancellation of Debt,” the following January if appropriate.\
    \ Write-off, Termination, close-out, and 1099C issuance can also occur at any\
    \ point in the above collection cycle if determined appropriate (e.g., debtor\
    \ is discharged as bankrupt).\nCollections from debtors to HUD go to the Treasury\
    \ Lockbox Network or Pay.gov. Collections from debtors to Treasury or DOJ come\
    \ to HUD via interagency transfer (i.e., Intra-Governmental Payment and Collection\
    \ (IPAC)). No matter the route, all payments are posted to the receivable in DCAMS.\n"
  Heading: Conditions Giving Rise to Improper Payments Identified in Recovery Audits,
    How Those Conditions are Being Resolved, & Methods Used to Recover Improper Payments
    Identified in Recovery Audits
  Key: ara2_1
  SortOrder: 1
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
- Answer: '7.11'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Recovered
  Key: arp6
  SortOrder: 2
  Subheading: ''
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '324.6575342465753'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Recovered
  Key: arp3_1
  SortOrder: 3
  Subheading: ''
  Type: PERCENTAGE
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp7
  SortOrder: 4
  Subheading: Used to administer the Recovery Audits and Activities Program
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp8
  SortOrder: 5
  Subheading: Used for a Financial Management Improvement Program
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp9
  SortOrder: 6
  Subheading: Used for the original purpose
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp10
  SortOrder: 7
  Subheading: Used for Inspector General Activities
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp11
  SortOrder: 8
  Subheading: Returned to Treasury
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '7.11'
  Heading: How Recovered Amounts Have Been Disposed Of
  Key: arp12
  SortOrder: 9
  Subheading: Returned to the Original Account
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.004825'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Outstanding
  Key: arp5
  SortOrder: 10
  Subheading: ''
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.22031963470319638'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Outstanding
  Key: arp5_1
  SortOrder: 11
  Subheading: ''
  Type: PERCENTAGE
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: Aging Schedule of the Amounts Outstanding
  Key: arp14
  SortOrder: 12
  Subheading: 0 to 6 Months Outstanding
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.004825'
  Heading: Aging Schedule of the Amounts Outstanding
  Key: arp15
  SortOrder: 13
  Subheading: 6 to 12 Months Outstanding
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Determined to Not Be Collectible
  Key: arp4
  SortOrder: 14
  Subheading: ''
  Type: MILLIONS_OF_DOLLARS
- Answer: '0.0'
  Heading: Overpayment Amount Determined to Not Be Collectible
  Key: arp4_1
  SortOrder: 15
  Subheading: ''
  Type: PERCENTAGE
- Answer: "I. Nature of the Program\nRHAP - Tenant Based Rental Assistance Section\
    \ 8 Housing Certificate Fund & Tenant Based Rental Assistance\n\nA payment recapture\
    \ audit was deemed not be cost-beneficial based on the nature of these programs.\
    \ Collectability is a concern as tenants may no longer be receiving housing assistance\
    \ when the overpayments are identified, or many may not be able to repay the subsidy\
    \ with their own resources. HSNG Owners/ PIH PHAs use the Enterprise Income Verification\
    \ (EIV) system to verify tenant employment/income information and reduce administrative\
    \ and subsidy payment errors in accordance with HUD administrative guidance. The\
    \ program Points of Contact (POC) use EIV to monitor the owner’s compliance with\
    \ access and use of the system. However, tenant files are stored locally at each\
    \ Multifamily property and some RHAP activities are administered by PHAs nationwide.\
    \ A recovery audit would involve substantial travel costs in addition to staff\
    \ time. There are also no centralized computer database capturing documents used\
    \ to support the rental subsidy determinations. Therefore, the cost of any additional\
    \ attempts to recover improper payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments\
    \ recovered.\n\nII. Lack of Empirical Evidence\nChoice Neighborhoods Initiative\n\
    Family Self-Sufficiency Program\nPublic Housing Capital Fund\nPublic Housing Operating\
    \ Fund\nRevitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)\nResearch\
    \ and Technology\n\nThe results of HUD’s payment integrity risk assessments identified\
    \ these programs as not susceptible to significant improper payments. There is\
    \ no empirical evidence, either through risk assessments, A-123 internal control\
    \ reviews, and other monitoring reviews, that suggests significant improper payments\
    \ exist within these programs and activities, and it is not likely that HUD would\
    \ realize any benefit to payment recapture audits of these programs. Therefore,\
    \ the cost of any additional attempts to recover improper payments would exceed\
    \ the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\nIII. Similar Overpayment Recovery\
    \ Activities for CPD Programs\nCapacity Building\nCommunity Development Fund -\
    \ Disaster Recovery Assistance (Hurricane Harvey, Irma, Maria)\nCommunity Development\
    \ Fund - Disaster Recovery Assistance (Louisiana, Texas, West Virginia, Hurricane\
    \ IKE, Other Disasters)\nNeighborhood Stabilization Program\nProject Based Section\
    \ 8 - Renewal of Expiring Sec. 8 Mod Rehab SRO\nSelf-Help Homeowner Opportunity\
    \ Program (SHOP)\nCommunity Project Funding - Community Project/Congressional\
    \ Funding\n\nThe CPD funds have a monitoring process in place to assess the quality\
    \ of performance of the grantee over time and promptly resolve the findings of\
    \ audits and other reviews. Monitoring provides information about program participants\
    \ that is critical for making informed judgments about program effectiveness and\
    \ management efficiency. It also helps in identifying instances of fraud, waste,\
    \ and abuse. The process involves frequent telephone/email contacts, written communications,\
    \ analysis of reports and audits, and periodic meetings. Monitoring also provides\
    \ opportunities to identify program participant accomplishments as well as successful\
    \ management/ implementation/evaluation techniques that might be replicated by\
    \ other CPD program participants. \nParties involved include Special Need Assistance\
    \ Programs (SNAP), Field Offices, Office of Policy Development and Coordination\
    \ (OPDC), Office of Rural Housing and Economic Development (ORHED), Office of\
    \ General Counsel (OGC), Budget and OCFO. CPD’s program exhibit 34-1a, Guide for\
    \ Review of Financial Management and Audits, is designed to monitor non-federal\
    \ entity’s compliance with requirements of Subparts D and F of 2 Code of Federal\
    \ Regulations (CFR) part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,\
    \ and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, except for cost allowability, procurement\
    \ and equipment. During the monitoring process, program expenditures are reviewed\
    \ to determine if improper payments were made. If identified CPD determines whether\
    \ the appropriate corrective actions took place. In most cases, CPD will recapture\
    \ overpayments by offsetting future draws. Overpayments in the Neighborhood Stabilization\
    \ Program are addressed through reduction of future allocations as opposed to\
    \ future draws. If there are no remaining funds on the grant, HUD will typically\
    \ instruct the grantee to either repay funds from non-federal funds sources to\
    \ their grant’s line of credit in Line of Credit Control System (LOCCS) or to\
    \ the Treasury’s account if the grant has been closed. A remittance to the line\
    \ of credit of less than $2,000 may be made by sending a check to HUD-FAD Collections\
    \ Ft. Worth PO Box 6200-05, whereas any remittance of more than $2,000 must be\
    \ sent via wire transfer to the Department of U.S. Treasury’s Financial Communications\
    \ System (TFCS). CPD programs could also withhold additional funding until the\
    \ overpayment has been recovered. \nIn addition, the results of HUD’s payment\
    \ integrity risk assessment identified these programs as not susceptible to significant\
    \ improper payments. Therefore, the cost of any additional attempts to recover\
    \ improper payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\
    \nIV. Similar Overpayment Recovery Activities for Ginnie Mae Programs\n2500-Contractor\
    \ Payments\n3300-Master Sub-Servicer (MSS) Default Activity\n\nFor any overpayments\
    \ identified, Ginnie Mae will either request reimbursement or offset future payments\
    \ to the contractor. However, if there are no future invoices to be provided,\
    \ Ginnie Mae will request reimbursement for the improper payment. To recover overpayments\
    \ made to the General Services Administration (GSA) for invoice payments to a\
    \ vendor, Ginnie Mae will process an IPAC. When the cost of recovering improper\
    \ payments is greater than the benefits, then Ginnie Mae will not pursue any further\
    \ actions than mitigating strategies as outlined already. \nAs it relates to the\
    \ Pass-Through Assistance Program (PTAP) program, which is new for 2021, the process\
    \ for identifying improper payments includes validation of the request against\
    \ the loan and pool information submitted to the Reporting and Feedback System\
    \ (RFS), evaluation of the issuers equity and liquidity as reported with the PTAP\
    \ request, and evaluation of the custodial account balance from which the Investor\
    \ payments will be drawn.\nThe PTAP disbursement process is the same as in all\
    \ Ginnie Mae disbursement requests. The PTAP disbursement request is processed\
    \ for review and approval for payment. All payment requests are approved by an\
    \ Independent Certifying Officer (ICO) (who accepts personal financial responsibility\
    \ and criminal liability for improper payments they certify). The cost of recovering\
    \ improper payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered and\
    \ would not be beneficial to the program.\n\nV. Similar Overpayment Recovery Activities\
    \ for Other Rental Assistance Programs\nProject-Based Rental Assistance Section\
    \ 8 Moderate Rehabilitation\nRental Housing Assistance Program – Section 236\n\
    \nThe results of HUD’s payment integrity risk assessment identified these programs\
    \ as not susceptible to significant improper payments. All owners receiving funding\
    \ from these programs are mandated by 24 CFR 5.233 to fully utilize HUD’s EIV\
    \ system. EIV is a web-based application which provides owners with employment,\
    \ wage, unemployment compensation and social security benefit information for\
    \ tenants participating in HUD’s assisted housing programs. Tenant Rental Assistance\
    \ Certification System (TRACS) is a system developed to improve the fiscal control\
    \ over assisted housing programs and acts as the sole repository of all tenant\
    \ certification data, assistance contract data and crucial payment data. EIV is\
    \ matched against TRACS and a variance of $2,400 per year generates an error and\
    \ owners are required to follow-up with the tenant and resolve the error. If an\
    \ overpayment is identified, tenants may pay the owner in a lump sum or by entering\
    \ into a repayment agreement. Therefore, the cost of any additional attempts to\
    \ recover improper payments would exceed the benefit of improper payments recovered.\n\
    \nOf the thirty-eight (38) programs excluded from a Payment Recapture Audit, the\
    \ remaining twenty (20) programs have other mechanisms in place to recover overpayments.\n\
    \nFair Housing Assistance Program\nFair Housing Initiative Program\nHousing Counseling\
    \ Assistance\nCommunity Development Block Grant  – DRAA-Sandy\nCommunity Development\
    \ Block Grants (CDBG)\nIndian Community Development Block Grants\nHomeless Assistance\
    \ Grants\nHOME Investments Partnership Program\nNative Hawaiian Housing Block\
    \ Grants\nSection 811 Housing for Persons with Disabilities (PRAC and Capital\
    \ Advance) \nRental Housing Assistance Program (RHAP) - Project Based Rental Assistance\n\
    Office of Inspector General\nHousing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS\nNative\
    \ American Housing Block Grants\nHousing for Special Populations- Capital Advance\
    \ portion of expenditures, Section 202\nHousing Trust Fund\nProject Based Section\
    \ 8 - Renewal of Expiring Sec. 8 Mod Rehab SRO\nSalaries & Expense Travel Program\n\
    Salaries & Expense Purchase Card Program\nIndian Home Loan Guarantee Program -\
    \ Sec. 184\n"
  Heading: Justification for the Determination that Performing Recovery Audits are
    Not Cost-Effective
  Key: ara2_3
  SortOrder: 17
  Subheading: ''
  Type: TEXT
SurveyName: Survey Responses
layout: congressional-reports
permalink: /resources/congressional-reports/2024_HUD_5
title: Agency Actions to Recover Improper Payments Identified in a Recovery Audit
  Report
---
