---
Agency: SSA
Agency_Name: Social Security Administration
Confirmed_Fraud: 63.18348242
Eligibility_Themes:
- Program_Name: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
  Themes:
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Age eligibility theme occur because of an inability to access the data
      or information needed and failure to access the data or information needed.  When
      an individual applicant applies for benefits, we need to verify the claimant’s
      age.  Improper payments occur when there are payment errors associated with
      the age of the claimant or beneficiary and computations related to age.  Improper
      payments may occur when a technician fails to obtain proof of age to adjudicate
      a claim properly because a claimant or applicant fails to provide needed evidence
      of age and the agency does not have access to another resource to verify the
      claimant or beneficiary’s age.
    Info: To determine whether an individual meets the Age eligibility criteria, when
      age is a factor of entitlement for benefits, individuals must provide proof
      that they meet age requirements.  In some cases, age impacts entitlement and
      the benefit amount.  The date of birth of the claimant or beneficiary may be
      incorrect within our systems at the time we compute benefits if the claimant
      or beneficiary fails to provide proof of age, or the agency does not have access
      to third party databases (e.g., Bureau of Vital Statistics).  If we use the
      incorrect age to compute benefits, we could pay the claimant or beneficiary
      the wrong payment amount.
    Theme: Age
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Dependency eligibility theme occur because of failure to access the data
      or information needed.  We are required to validate dependency relationships
      between family members and the beneficiary.  Payment errors are associated with
      the child relationship to the number holder, the relationship between the parent
      and number holder, and the child or parent beneficiary’s dependence on the number
      holder for financial support.  There are barriers to timely determining dependency
      requirements.  One barrier occurs when technicians have evidence that proves
      the relationship between the beneficiary and number holder (such as birth or
      adoption record, or proof of marriage that establishes a stepchild or step-parent
      relationship) but when necessary, the evidence of one-half support is not proven.  Another
      barrier is when the child or parent beneficiary fails to provide evidence that
      affirms their relationship to the number holder.
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Dependency eligibility criteria
      requirement, we must determine which benefit type or category within the specific
      benefit type applies.  The most common category for child’s benefits requires
      us to deem that dependency is met when relationship criteria are met.  However,
      other categories of children (for example, stepchildren, adopted children, and
      grandchildren) and other categories of benefits (such as widow(er)’s, parent’s
      and child-in-care), may require proofs, such as no remarriage, living with,
      one-half support or proof of support at a particular time period, in order for
      dependency criteria to be met.  Thus, must also verify that certain spouses
      have a dependent child in their care to receive benefits.  Payment to a beneficiary
      receiving a child’s or parent’s benefits could be incorrect when evidence does
      not establish the relationship between the child or parent to the number holder,
      the relationship between the child and the spouse of the number holder, or one-half
      support cannot be proven to support dependency of the parent or child to the
      number holder.  If we do not properly determine if dependency is met (or in
      some instances continues) we could pay the beneficiary the wrong benefit amount.
    Theme: Dependency
  - Barriers: 'Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Employment eligibility theme occur because of our inability to access
      the data or information needed or failure to access the data or information
      needed.  Income from employment, including self-employment, is used to determine
      the primary insurance amount and whether a beneficiary is entitled to payment.  Payment
      errors are associated with wages, computations related to earnings, the Annual
      Earnings Test (AET), and work after disability, such as substantial gainful
      activity (SGA).  Barriers exist when we do not have access to third-party databases
      (Employer Records) and a beneficiary fails to report work activity or changes
      in income and/or provides incorrect or untimely information.  There are barriers
      to timely determining Employment requirements.  Barriers exist when technicians:  have
      access to wage information and employer records but fail to update beneficiary
      records; fail to apply the AET correctly; fail to calculate the correct primary
      insurance amount or apply correct Adjustment Reduction Factors; and do not take
      appropriate or timely action to adjust payments for Disability Insurance beneficiaries
      based on SGA.  We maintain wage reporting via W-2 and W-3 or equivalent electronic
      reports to update earnings for number holders; however, we may receive duplicate
      or erroneously posted earnings information or inaccurate wage postings.'
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Employment eligibility criteria,
      we verify the employment status of a beneficiary.  Beneficiary can meet Employment
      eligibility criteria depending on the program requirement and work status, which
      may include if they can work, are available to work, are actively seeking work,
      are employed, are separated from employment, or are registered for employment
      services.  Employment can affect retirement benefits when determining insured
      status, calculating the benefit amount, adjusting benefits when the Cost of
      Living Allowances are applicable, or when benefits are adjusted because of work.  Employment
      also affects disability benefits when earnings affect the Date of Onset, or
      result in Substantial Gainful Activity, reinstatement of benefit, or give rise
      to other disability issues that affect the payment.
    Theme: Employment
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Household Size eligibility theme occur because of failure to access the
      data or information needed.  Incorrect payments may occur when there are computation
      errors related to the family maximum (FMAX).  The FMAX is the maximum monthly
      amount that can be paid on a number holder’s earnings record without regard
      to household composition.  The total amount paid to each beneficiary using the
      maximum is determined by the number of entitled beneficiaries on the number
      holder’s record and those benefits can be affected when the beneficiary is dually
      entitled (divorced spouses and surviving divorced spouses are excluded from
      the family maximum computation).  There are barriers to determining household
      requirements.  Barriers include calculation errors by technicians when the FMAX
      is involved.  These errors resulted when benefits were paid using the table
      max instead of the combined family max or when dual entitlement reduced a beneficiary’s
      rate to a partial payable rate and the remainder was not redistributed to other
      auxiliaries on the record, following the deduction before reduction provision.  When
      we identify an underpayment posted to a record, we can request corrective action.
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Household Size eligibility
      criteria requirement, we must evaluate the number of family members on the number
      holder’s record without regards to household composition.  The total benefits
      paid must include beneficiaries paid from the family maximum.
    Theme: Household Size
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Marital Status eligibility theme occur because of inability to access
      the data or information needed.  The barriers prohibiting us from preventing
      improper payments because of marriage are the beneficiary’s failure to timely
      report their marital status.
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Marital Status eligibility
      criteria, we must evaluate a beneficiary’s state of being unmarried, married,
      divorced, or widowed.  Entitlement to some categories of benefits is impacted
      by the beneficiary’s marital status, so we rely on beneficiaries to report changes
      in their marital status.
    Theme: Marital Status
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Military Status eligibility theme occur because of inability to access
      the data or information needed and failure to access the data or information
      needed from the United States Department of Veteran Affairs and Department of
      Defense.  The Military Status eligibility theme is the condition of being or
      having been in the uniformed services.  Payment errors may be associated with
      military wages and credits.  Technicians may not obtain evidence supporting
      military earnings or credits, fail to apply correct Deemed Military Wage (DMW)
      credits based on available evidence, or apply DMW credits incorrectly based
      on available evidence.  A beneficiary’s failure to provide evidence could also
      be a barrier in identifying underpayments.
    Info: 'This theme’s eligibility criteria is based on the condition of being or
      having been in the uniformed services.  To meet the Military Status eligibility
      criteria, a beneficiary must have military discharge status, military service
      status, selective service status, or a service connection.


      A member of a uniformed service includes any person appointed, enlisted, or
      inducted into, or a retired member of, a component of the Army, Navy, Air Force,
      Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Space Force or:  any of the Reserve components of
      any uniformed service without specification of component (except the Coast Guard
      Reserve as a temporary member), a commissioned officer (including a retired
      commissioned officer) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
      or the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service, a member of the
      Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve, a cadet at the United States Military,
      Coast Guard or Air Force Academy or a midshipman at the United States Naval
      Academy, a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps, the Naval Reserve
      Officers Training Corps or the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps when
      ordered to annual duty for 14 days or more including periods of authorized travel
      to and from that duty, a person selected for active military or naval training
      under the Military Selective Service Act or provisionally accepted for active
      duty in the military or naval service and are ordered or directed to a place
      for final acceptance or entry upon active duty and are on the way to or from
      or at that place.'
    Theme: Military Status
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Prisoner Status eligibility theme occur because of failure to access
      the data or information needed.  We are required to verify an applicant or beneficiary’s
      prisoner status prior to issuing payment.  We use the Prisoner Update Processing
      System, which contains individual confinement data, to control alerts, and suspend
      benefits for Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance.  We also rely on
      individuals to self-report correctional institution status timely.  An individual
      who receives retirement or disability benefits is not eligible while incarcerated.  We
      must contact facilities to verify the status and details (i.e., dates of incarceration/release
      for individuals incarcerated) to determine the period of ineligibility.
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Prisoner Status eligibility
      criteria, we are required to verify an applicant or beneficiary’s prisoner status
      prior to issuing payment.  An individual is ineligible to receive payment of
      Retirement, Survivors, and Disability Insurance benefits if they are confined
      in a correctional institution for more than 30 continuous days due to a conviction
      of a crime, fleeing to avoid prosecution, custody, or confinement after conviction,
      or violating a condition of probation or parole, or if they are confined by
      court order in an institution at the public’s expense for more than 30 continuous
      days in connection with a verdict or finding that they are not guilty for reasons
      of insanity, incompetent to stand trial, or a sexually dangerous person.
    Theme: Prisoner Status
  - Barriers: 'Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance improper payments included
      in the Receiving Benefits from Other Sources eligibility theme occur because
      of inability to access the data or information needed and failure to access
      the data or information needed.  We are required to validate an applicant or
      beneficiary’s receipt of payment from other benefit programs prior to issuing
      payment.


      This theme represents payment errors normally associated with cases involving
      Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP), Government Pension Offset (GPO), Workers’
      Compensation (WC), Public Disability Benefits (PDB), or multiple entitlement
      to benefits.  There are barriers prohibiting us from improving prevention of
      improper payments by timely determining whether an applicant or beneficiary
      is receiving benefits from other sources.  Technicians may not obtain evidence
      to apply WEP, WC/PDB, or GPO on a record.  Technicians may incorrectly calculate
      WC/PDB offset.  Beneficiaries may not report changes to WC/PDB payments or changes
      to the pension amount for GPO.  We do not have access to all of the WC/PDB data
      from all States.  We primarily rely on the beneficiary to report their receipt
      or potential receipt of a non-covered pension at the time of the initial application
      or after entitlement if entitlement to the non-covered pension is in the future.  Technicians
      may improperly calculate multiple entitlement benefits.


      Additional barriers to correctly implementing WEP, WC/PDB, and GPO to prevent
      improper payments include:  lack of accurate data to administer WEP, WC/PDB,
      and GPO provisions, lack of automation to minimize human error and ensure timely
      action in response to existing alerts, lack of understanding on how to compute
      WEP, WC/PDB, and GPO and apply the exceptions to them, and lack of understanding
      among agency technicians on how non-covered pensions work (e.g., whether the
      payments are recurring or issued in a lump sum or whether there may be a cost-of-living
      adjustment), which is key to correctly administering WEP, WC/PDB, and GPO.


      We use several sources to verify receiving benefits from other sources.  We
      maintain a matching agreement with the Office of Personnel Management to obtain
      information on Federal Government retirees who receive a pension from work not
      covered by Social Security.  We also have an informal agreement with the Department
      of Labor (DOL) to allow a limited number of our Processing Centers and Regional
      Office employees access to DOL’s Agency Query System to obtain Federal Employment
      Compensation Act (FECA) benefit payment information.  This access allows verification
      of FECA payments for workers’ compensation offset purposes.  We obtain foreign
      pension information through beneficiary or claimant self-reporting.'
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Receiving Benefits from Other
      Sources eligibility criteria, we are required to validate an applicant or beneficiary’s
      receipt of payment from other benefit programs prior to issuing payment.  A
      beneficiary may be entitled to benefits from other sources such as a non-covered
      pension (including foreign pensions), workers’ compensation or public disability
      benefits, or be dually entitled.
    Theme: Receiving Benefits from Other Sources
  - Barriers: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) improper payments
      included in the Residency eligibility theme occur because of failure to access
      the data or information needed.  We are required to validate an applicant or
      beneficiary’s residency status prior to issuing payment.  There are barriers
      prohibiting us from improving prevention of improper payments by timely determining
      residency status.  Sole reliance on the self-reporting of foreign travel by
      beneficiaries jeopardizes our ability to make accurate payments in the OASDI
      program.  We rely almost exclusively on self-reporting to determine when a material
      absence from the United States (U.S.) affects payment eligibility.  Most people
      do not report their material travel outside of the U.S. timely or at all, which
      causes improper payments.
    Info: To determine whether a beneficiary meets the Residency eligibility criteria,
      we evaluate the status of the beneficiary’s living location prior to issuing
      a payment.  Section 202(t) of the Social Security Act requires us to suspend
      Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance benefits payments to non-United
      States (U.S.) citizen beneficiaries who are physically outside of the U.S. for
      more than 6 consecutive calendar months, unless they meet an exception.  In
      addition, dependent and survivor beneficiaries who meet certain exceptions must
      also meet an additional requirement of 5 years U.S. residency while a in qualifying
      relationship with the number holder for benefits to continue after 6 consecutive
      calendar months outside the U.S.
    Theme: Residency
- Program_Name: Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
  Themes:
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income improper payments included in the Address/Location
      eligibility theme occur because data or information needed does not exist, inability
      to access the data or information needed, and failure to access the data or
      information needed.  When an applicant or recipient is not a transient, or a
      resident of an institution, we are required to validate their living arrangement
      prior to issuing payment.  If recipients are not paying their pro rata share
      of household expenses, we generally count the difference between the pro rata
      share amount and the actual contribution as income to the recipient in the form
      of in-kind support and maintenance.  This type of income is difficult to accurately
      value because it can fluctuate each month as household expenses and composition
      and the type of assistance provided may change.  Therefore, we ask questions
      to help determine if recipients are paying their share of household expenses
      and must rely on recipients to report changes in household expenses, composition,
      and contributions accurately and timely.
    Info: To determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Address/Location
      eligibility criteria, when an applicant or recipient is not a transient, or
      a resident of an institution, we are required to validate their living arrangement
      prior to issuing payment.  We develop an individual’s living arrangement for
      their permanent residence to ensure we use the correct in-kind support and maintenance
      (ISM) valuation rule and we do not overlook sources of ISM.
    Theme: Address/Location
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income improper payments included in the Deceased
      eligibility theme occur because of inability to access the data or information
      needed.  We are required to validate that there is no date of death on the record
      of the applicant or current recipient prior to issuing a payment for a month.  We
      validate and document the date of death using a system query or proof found
      in our electronic repository.  We receive and process reports of death from
      a variety of sources.  Nearly 91 percent of these reports come to us from States,
      but we also receive death information from family members, funeral homes, other
      Federal agencies, and financial institutions.  We also obtain third-party data
      from the Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Veterans Affairs,
      and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Barriers that prohibit
      us from improving the prevention of improper payments are the failure of family
      members to report recipient deaths and delays in reporting recipient deaths.
    Info: To determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Deceased eligibility
      criteria, we are required to validate that there is no date of death on the
      record of the applicant or current recipient prior to issuing a payment for
      a month.  We validate and document the date of death using a system query or
      proof found in our electronic repository.
    Theme: Deceased
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) improper payments included in the
      Employment eligibility theme occur because of inability to access the data or
      information needed and failure to access the data or information needed.  We
      are required to validate that an SSI applicant or current SSI recipient has
      income below certain limits to be eligible for SSI payments.  Social Security
      regulations define income as anything received in cash or in-kind that can be
      used to meet food and shelter needs.  Earned income consists of wages, net earnings
      from self-employment, sheltered workshop payments, and certain royalties and
      honoraria.  We may count the income of an SSI applicant/recipient and also the
      income of the applicant/recipient's spouse (or parents of child recipients)
      when we determine eligibility and payment amount.  The Social Security Act provides
      for exclusion of certain amounts of earned income.  Generally, for earned income,
      we may disregard the first $65, in addition to the $20 general exclusion when
      applicable, plus half the remaining amount received in a month.  Other amounts
      may be disregarded depending on individual circumstances, such as blindness
      or impairment related work expenses or certain amounts earned by students under
      age 22.  Program complexity is a barrier to improvement as SSI makes eligibility
      and payment determinations on a monthly basis.  Matching data would need to
      be accurate, acquired timely, and offer sufficient detail to prevent employment-related
      improper payments.  We rely on individuals to self-report wages to us timely
      and accurately.  We use several sources to verify wage amounts, including payroll
      data providers, a data match with the National Directory of New Hires from the
      United States Department of Health and Human Services, and earnings information
      provided by the Internal Revenue Service, to obtain verified wage and employment
      information.  Our verification process is a manual, one-to-one match and wages
      are reported annually or quarterly, which can be inaccurate when converted or
      averaged to monthly amounts.  Unless self-reported monthly, wage data is manually
      verified retroactively, during periodic non-medical eligibility reviews.  Some
      information that affects earned income determinations, such as work expenses,
      must be verified manually.
    Info: To determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Employment eligibility
      criteria, we are required to validate that a Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
      applicant or current SSI recipient has income below certain limits to be eligible
      for SSI payments.  Social Security regulations define income as anything received
      in cash or in-kind that can be used to meet food and shelter needs.  Earned
      income consists of wages, net earnings from self-employment, sheltered workshop
      payments, and certain royalties and honoraria.  We may count the income of an
      SSI applicant/recipient and also the income of the applicant/recipient's spouse
      (or parents of child recipients) when we determine eligibility and payment amount.  The
      Social Security Act provides for exclusion of certain amounts of earned income.  Generally,
      for earned income, we may disregard the first $65, in addition to the $20 general
      exclusion when applicable, plus half the remaining amount received in a month.  We
      may disregard other earned income amounts for certain workers; for example,
      certain blindness or impairment related work expenses or certain amounts earned
      by students under age 22.
    Theme: Employment
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) improper payments included in the
      Financial eligibility theme occur because of inability to access the data or
      information needed and failure to access the data or information needed.  We
      are required to validate an applicant or recipient’s countable resources prior
      to issuing payment.  An individual applicant/recipient (or couple) must confirm
      that they do not have countable resources in excess of the statutory limit ($2,000
      for an individual and $3,000 for a couple) to be eligible for SSI.  Social Security
      regulations define resources as assets the individual (or their spouse) owns,
      can convert to cash, and can use for their support and maintenance.  This includes
      things such as cash, funds held in financial accounts, real property, and personal
      property.  SSI applicants and recipients are required to report their resources
      to the agency to ensure they are eligible for SSI; in determining SSI eligibility,
      we also take into account resources for deemors (ineligible spouses or parents
      of minor children).  Eligibility for payments is determined the first day of
      each calendar month; that determination is applicable to the entire month.  We
      must verify financial account funds via the Access to Financial Institutions
      (AFI) tool during the initial claims intake processing and post-entitlement
      activities.  We use the AFI tool to verify financial accounts.  For institutions
      that do not participate in AFI, we request bank information from the individual
      and may request information directly from non-participating financial institutions.  AFI
      effectively detects unreported accounts and identifies excess amounts in known
      accounts.  However, because the AFI tool works retroactively by providing current
      and past monthly balances, it does not prevent improper payments.  We use the
      LexisNexis/Accurint tool to identify other resources, such as non-home real
      property (NHRP).  However, we can use the NHRP information only to establish
      a lead for further investigation and potential action; developing and verifying
      the NHRP is a manual process.  Program complexity is a barrier to improvement
      as SSI makes eligibility and payment determinations on a monthly basis.  Matching
      data would need to be accurate, acquired timely, and offer sufficient detail
      to prevent financial accounts-related improper payments.  We rely on individuals
      to self-report changes in their resources (e.g., financial institution account
      balances and NHRP ownership) timely and accurately.
    Info: 'To determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Financial eligibility
      criteria, we are required to validate the applicant or recipient’s countable
      resources prior to issuing payment.  An individual applicant/recipient (or couple)
      must confirm that they do not have countable resources in excess of the statutory
      limit ($2,000 for an individual and $3,000 for a couple) to be eligible for
      Supplemental Security Income (SSI).  Social Security regulations define resources
      as assets the individual (or their spouse) owns, can convert to cash, and can
      use for their support and maintenance.  These resources include things such
      as cash, funds held in financial accounts, real property, and personal property.


      SSI applicants and recipients are required to report their resources to the
      agency to ensure they are eligible for SSI; in determining SSI eligibility,
      we also take into account resources for deemors (ineligible spouses or parents
      of minor children).  Eligibility for payments is determined the first day of
      each calendar month; that determination is applicable to the entire month.


      We use the Access to Financial Institutions (AFI) tool during the initial claims
      intake processing and post-entitlement activities to identify excess resources
      in financial accounts and verify bank account balances.  While AFI is the preferred
      method, we also use bank statements and other financial account records to verify
      financial account balances for non-participating institutions.  In addition,
      we must verify financial account balances when a resource diary is present on
      the SSI record.

      '
    Theme: Financial
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) improper payments included in the
      Prisoner Status eligibility theme occur because of inability to access the data
      or information needed.  We are required to validate an applicant or recipient’s
      prisoner status prior to issuing payment.  An individual who is a resident of
      a public penal institution throughout a month is ineligible for SSI, since the
      recipient receives substantially all of their food and shelter while living
      there.  We rely on individuals to self-report correctional institution status
      timely.  An individual who receives all food and shelter while living in an
      institution is not eligible for SSI.  We must contact facilities to verify the
      status and details (i.e., dates of incarceration/release for individuals incarcerated)
      to determine the period of ineligibility.
    Info: To determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Prisoner Status
      eligibility criteria, we are required to validate the applicant or recipient’s
      prisoner status prior to issuing payment.  An individual who is a resident of
      a public penal institution throughout a month is ineligible for Supplemental
      Security Income since the recipient receives substantially all of their food
      and shelter while living there.
    Theme: Prisoner Status
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) improper payments included in the
      Receiving Benefits from Other Sources eligibility theme occur because of inability
      to access the data or information needed and failure to access the data or information
      needed.  SSI is intended to be a program of last resort.  We are required to
      validate an applicant or recipient’s receipt of payment from other benefit programs
      prior to issuing payment.  We assess the other benefit programs for which an
      individual is eligible (e.g., annuities, pensions, and Old-Age, Survivors, and
      Disability Insurance (OASDI) benefits), and count them as sources of income
      that reduce SSI.  Filing for other benefits is a requirement for Supplemental
      Security Income eligibility.  Other benefits for which a recipient must file
      include annuities, pensions, OASDI benefits, veterans’ pensions, retirement
      benefits, and workers’ compensation payments.  We mainly rely on individuals
      to self-report when they become eligible for other benefits, stop receiving
      benefits, or there are changes in benefit amounts.  We are authorized to access
      a Veterans Benefits Administration database that houses military discharge records.  The
      information on the Veterans Benefits Administration Query is the DD-214 for
      veterans who have applied for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) services.  We
      must obtain any military discharge data that is not provided by this query from
      the veteran, the VA, or other appropriate sources.  We attribute errors to the
      agency when we fail to take appropriate or timely action to a known event.
    Info: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is intended to be a program of last resort.  To
      determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Receiving Benefits from
      Other Sources eligibility criteria, we are required to validate the applicant
      or recipient’s receipt of payment from other benefit programs prior to issuing
      payment.  We assess the other benefit programs for which an individual is eligible
      (e.g., annuities, pensions, and Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance
      benefits), and count them as sources of income that reduce SSI.
    Theme: Receiving Benefits from Other Sources
  - Barriers: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) improper payments included in the
      Residency eligibility theme occur because of inability to access the data or
      information needed and failure to access the data or information needed.  We
      are required to validate an applicant or recipient’s residency status prior
      to issuing payment.  Section 1611(f) of the Social Security Act requires us
      to suspend payments to SSI recipients who remain outside of the United States
      (U.S.) for an entire calendar month.  If an SSI recipient is absent from the
      U.S. for 30 or more consecutive days, payments remain suspended until the individual
      returns to the U.S. and remains present for 30 consecutive days.  Sole reliance
      on the self-reporting of foreign travel by recipients jeopardizes our ability
      to make accurate payments in the SSI program.  We rely almost exclusively on
      self-reporting to determine when a material absence from the U.S. affects payment
      eligibility.  Most people do not report their material travel outside of the
      U.S. timely or at all, which causes improper payments.  We must verify third-party
      reports (e.g., Arrival and Departure Information System data from the Department
      of Homeland Security) with the recipient before taking any actions to adjust
      SSI payments.
    Info: To determine whether an applicant or recipient meets the Residency eligibility
      criteria, we are required to validate the applicant or recipient’s residency
      status prior to issuing payment.  Section 1611(f) of the Social Security Act
      requires us to suspend payments to Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients
      who remain outside of the United States (U.S.) for an entire calendar month.  If
      an SSI recipient is absent from the U.S. for 30 or more consecutive days, payments
      remain suspended until the individual returns to the U.S. and remains present
      for 30 consecutive days.
    Theme: Residency
Fiscal_Year: 2023
Hide_Disposition_of_Funds: true
Hide_Do_Not_Pay: false
Hide_Eligibility_Criteria: false
Hide_Integrity_Results: false
Hide_PIIA2019: false
Hide_Recovery_Audits: false
Hide_Recovery_Details: true
Hide_Recovery_Info: false
Hide_Risk_Assessment_Results: false
Hide_Sparklines: false
Hide_Supplemental_Info: false
Hide_Supplemental_Payment_Integrity: false
Improper_Payments_Data_Years: '[2021, 2022, 2023, 2024]'
Improper_Payments_Rate_Max: 1.0
Improper_Payments_Rate_Min: 0.6
Improper_Payments_Rates: '[0.72668083039083, 0.6248561918305873, 1.0279949455076165,
  0.7481927772693413]'
Is_Placeholder: false
Overpayment_Amounts: '[6799.4121586, 6004.77487898, 11139.59845568, 8864.28466567]'
Overpayment_Amounts_Identified: '[24888.48739526, 24953.84711709, 20132.22, 20670.31746522,
  10049.0]'
Overpayment_Amounts_Recovered: '[4081.25146259, 3813.97401133, 4073.59, 4279.44459147,
  4922.0]'
Overpayment_Years: '[2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023]'
PIIA2019_Compliant_Programs:
- Compliant_1A: true
  Compliant_1B: true
  Compliant_2A: true
  Compliant_2B: true
  Compliant_3: true
  Compliant_4: true
  Compliant_5A: true
  Compliant_5B: true
  Compliant_5C: true
  Compliant_6: true
  Compliant_Overall: true
  Name: Administrative Payments - Social Security Administration
- Compliant_1A: true
  Compliant_1B: true
  Compliant_2A: true
  Compliant_2B: true
  Compliant_3: true
  Compliant_4: true
  Compliant_5A: true
  Compliant_5B: true
  Compliant_5C: true
  Compliant_6: true
  Compliant_Overall: true
  Name: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)
  Slug: ssa-old-age-survivors-and-disability-insurance-oasdi
- Compliant_1A: true
  Compliant_1B: true
  Compliant_2A: true
  Compliant_2B: true
  Compliant_3: true
  Compliant_4: true
  Compliant_5A: true
  Compliant_5B: true
  Compliant_5C: true
  Compliant_6: true
  Compliant_Overall: true
  Name: Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
  Slug: ssa-supplemental-security-income-ssi
PIIA2019_NonCompliant_Programs: []
Payment_Accuracy_Amounts: '[1127502.95683328, 1176393.1272190001, 1313537.8926168,
  1402899.07614597]'
Payment_Accuracy_Rate_Max: 99.4
Payment_Accuracy_Rate_Min: 99.0
Payment_Accuracy_Rates: '[99.27331916960917, 99.37514380816941, 98.97200505449239,
  99.25180722273066]'
Risks:
  AdditionalInformation: null
  Assessments:
  - Fiscal_Year: 2021
    Program_Name: Administrative Payments - Social Security Administration
    Slug: null
    Susceptible: 'No'
  SubstantialChangesMade: null
Technically_Improper_Amounts: '[0, 0, 0, 0]'
Underpayment_Amounts: '[1453.9110081200001, 1392.21094062, 2503.75769942, 1711.23013231]'
Unknown_Amounts: '[0, 0, 0, 0]'
Unknown_Payments_Rate_Max: 0
Unknown_Payments_Rate_Min: 0
Unknown_Payments_Rates: '[0, 0, 0, 0]'
Years_Available:
- 2024
- 2023
- 2022
- 2021
detail_agy1: For both the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance and Supplemental
  Security Income programs, much of the overpayments occur outside of the agency’s
  control.  However, we continue to find ways to influence change where possible and
  focus on mitigation strategies within our control.
detail_ara1: 'Yes'
detail_ara2: 'No'
detail_ara2_1: null
detail_ara2_2: null
detail_ara2_3: 'We meet the recovery activities program requirements of Payment Integrity
  Information Act of 2019 for our benefit programs.  We have no plans to conduct payment
  recapture audits or contract for a private sector payment recapture auditing firm
  because of the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) and Supplemental
  Security Income (SSI) programs’ complexity.  We conducted extensive market research
  prior to deciding not to use external auditors.  We put out a Request for Information
  and received approximately 15 responses.  We interviewed all of the respondents,
  who agreed that they could not match our benefit payments internal controls and
  audit mechanisms because of the complexity of our programs.  The typical claims
  specialist (our principal benefits reviewer, authorizer and adjudicator position)
  receives an average of 13 weeks of training prior to entering the job and does not
  achieve journeyman status until they have been on the job for 2 years.


  We have a comprehensive debt collection program.  We collected $4.9 billion in fiscal
  year (FY) 2023 at an administrative cost of $0.08 on average per dollar collected.  To
  recover overpayments, we use internal debt collection techniques (i.e., payment
  withholding, billing, and follow up), as well as some external collection techniques
  authorized by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 for OASDI debts and the
  Foster Care Independence Act of 1999 for SSI debts.


  We developed a system to use the Treasury Offset Program (TOP), credit bureau reporting,
  and Administrative Wage Garnishment collection mechanisms for delinquent debts.  Because
  the system includes more than TOP and is the basis for any future collection interfaces
  with outside agencies or entities, we call it the External Collection Operation
  system.


  As resources permit, we are making improvement in other aspects of our debt collection
  program.  In FY 2018, we began modernization efforts to build a new Debt Management
  System.  This information technology investment is a multiyear effort intended to
  build a comprehensive overpayment system enabling us to record, track, collect,
  and report our overpayments more efficiently.


  The Federal Government uses the reclamation process to recover benefit payments
  paid via direct deposit to the financial account of a beneficiary who died and is
  not entitled to the payment, became legally incapacitated, or who died before the
  date of the payment(s).  To recover OASDI and SSI payments from U.S. financial institutions,
  we must send reclamation requests within 120 days of the date we learn of a beneficiary’s
  death.  A financial institution may protest a recovery of funds if we did not initiate
  the reclamation timely.


  For Administrative Payments, our current recovery activities program is a proven
  cost-effective means for evaluating payment accuracy and identifying improper payments.  In
  2013, we contracted with a private sector recovery auditing firm on a contingency
  fee basis to review our administrative payments.  The firm based its review on past
  industry experience of improper payment rates, and a cost/benefit analysis of transactions
  processed by type and dollars paid.  Because of their minimal recovery, the auditors
  terminated the contract.'
detail_ara2_3_2: Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI); Supplemental
  Security Income (SSI); Administrative Payments
detail_arp10: null
detail_arp11: null
detail_arp12: null
detail_arp14: null
detail_arp15: null
detail_arp16: null
detail_arp16_5: null
detail_arp17: null
detail_arp18: 'Historically, our remittance process was a largely manual workload
  handled by the Mid-Atlantic Program Service Center (MATPSC).  The MATPSC remittance
  process requires a method of payment (check, money order, debit or credit card)
  and a corresponding payment coupon necessary to update a debtor’s record.  In fiscal
  year (FY) 2021, as part of the Debt Management Product, we implemented several improvements
  to our remittance process.  In FY 2021, we started accepting repayment of benefit
  overpayments through the Department of the Treasury’s (Treasury) Pay.gov via credit
  or debit card and automated clearing house (ACH); i.e., a checking or savings account.  In
  addition to this effort, we partnered with Treasury to use U.S. Bank, a financial
  agent for Treasury, to implement a lockbox service to assist with our paper remittance
  processing efforts at the MATPSC.  Lastly, we implemented Online Bill Pay (OLBP),
  allowing debtors to make a one-time or recurring ACH draft from a bank account using
  a personal computer or mobile phone.  These enhancements now account for nearly
  approximately 49.67 percent of our remittance activity.


  During FY 2023, we extended the lockbox service to include Supplemental Security
  Income remittances.


  In FY 2023, we processed over 464,000 remittances and collected nearly $94 million
  through Pay.gov; we processed approximately 216,000 remittances and collected over
  $54 million through the lockbox service; and we processed over 41,000 remittances
  and collected over $4 million through the OLBP.'
detail_arp4: null
detail_arp4_1: null
detail_arp5: '0'
detail_arp5_1: null
detail_arp7: null
detail_arp8: null
detail_arp9: null
detail_cap3: null
detail_cap4: null
detail_com1: Compliant
detail_dpa1: 'No'
detail_dpa2: null
detail_dpa3: null
detail_dpa5: 'We do not currently use the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) Do
  Not Pay (DNP) system because we have access to the same data as DNP  applicable
  to our programs such as the General Services Administration’s System for Award Management
  (SAM), our public version of the Death Master File (DMF), state death data through
  the Electronic Death Registration process and Prisoner Update Processing System
  (PUPS).


  SAM:  We comply with regulations to use the List of Excluded Individuals/Entities
  (LEIE), which accomplishes the same purpose as the Exclusions query via SAM.gov.  From
  SAM.gov, we can verify through Entity Registrations if any person or organization
  is registered to do business with the Federal Government and determine a person
  or organization’s eligibility to do business with the Federal Government through
  a check of the Exclusions query.  We are precluded from soliciting offers from,
  awarding contracts to renew, placing or renewing orders with, or otherwise extending
  the duration of a current contract with any entity who has been determined ineligible
  from doing business with the Federal Government unless the head of the agency (or
  designee) determines there is a compelling reason to do so.


  As prescribed in our policy, the State disability determination services (DDS) offices
  are required to check the LEIE at least annually.  LEIE includes the names of providers
  excluded from Federally funded health care programs.  The DDS offices also verify
  medical licenses, credentials, and certifications with State medical boards.


  DMF:  The DMF is a publicly available extract of death information created from
  our internal records (i.e., the Numident).  These records contain information, such
  as name, Social Security number (SSN), date of birth, and date of death of deceased
  SSN holders.  We update death information on the Numident daily based on information
  from acceptable reporters (e.g., States, funeral homes, and family members).  We
  distribute reported death information to our related records using a complex systems
  interface.  Because our internal death data are more complete than the extracts,
  we do not use DNP for purposes of verifying death.


  State Death Data:  We receive state death data directly from the states through
  the Electronic Death Registration process.  Under Section 205(r) of the Social Security
  Act, we may only provide State death data, on a reimbursable basis, to Federal or
  State agencies for specific purposes.  Per Section 801 of the Consolidated Appropriations
  Act, 2021, we will be providing Treasury’s DNP with State death data beginning December
  27, 2023 for a three-year period.


  Prisoner Information:  To comply with the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, we collaborated
  with Treasury’s Bureau of Fiscal Service to provide current prisoner information.  Because
  our PUPS is more complete than the data available via DNP, we use our internal data
  to verify incarceration.'
detail_exs1: 'The Social Security Inspector General (IG) concluded the agency was
  compliant with the Payment Integrity Information Act of 2019 (PIIA) in the fiscal
  year (FY) 2022 compliance audit.  The reporting period for this data call reflects
  FY 2023, and whether the agency is compliant will be determined in calendar year
  2024.  PIIA requires agencies to review and assess all programs with annual outlays
  greater than $10,000,000 for improper payment risk at least once every three years
  to identify those susceptible to significant improper payments.  Programs that are
  not likely to have an annual amount of improper payments plus annual unknown payments
  above the statutory threshold (which is either (a) both 1.5 percent of program outlays
  and $10,000,000 of all program payments made during the fiscal year, or (b) $100,000,000)
  are in Phase 1.  Per this definition, our Administrative Payments program is in
  Phase 1 for Office of Management and Budget reporting purposes.  Our assessment
  of improper payment risk in our Administrative Payments program in FY 2021 determined
  that the program is not susceptible to significant improper payments.  We will conduct
  another improper payment risk assessment of our Administrative Payments program
  in FY 2024.  If a program in Phase 1 is likely to annually make improper payments
  and unknown payments above the statutory threshold, then the program will move into
  Phase 2 the following year.  Once in Phase 2 a program will have additional requirements
  such as reporting an annual improper payment and unknown payment estimate.  Our
  Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) and Supplemental Security Income
  (SSI) programs are in Phase 2.


  Based on our FY 2022 stewardship reviews (FY 2023 stewardship information will be
  available in summer 2024), we estimate that we paid approximately $1.3 trillion
  to OASDI beneficiaries.  Of that total, we estimate about $6.5 billion were overpayments,
  representing approximately 0.51 percent of outlays.  We estimate that underpayments
  during this same period were $1.8 billion, the equivalent of approximately 0.14
  percent of outlays.  OASDI overpayments within the agency’s control are due to our
  failure to access data or information needed.  These overpayments occur when the
  beneficiary or third-party provided data or information that we requested and was
  necessary to accurately compute the benefit amount, but we failed to use the data
  or information needed to validate the payment accuracy prior to making a payment.  To
  prevent these overpayments from occurring, technicians follow existing procedures
  and we provide training and reminders for technicians when applicable and automation
  solutions to improve accuracy when possible.


  OASDI and SSI overpayments outside of the agency’s control occur when we are unable
  to access data needed to validate payment accuracy because the beneficiary or a
  third-party either did not provide requested information or provided inaccurate
  information necessary to compute the accurate benefit amount.  The primary cause
  of these overpayments is our reliance on timely self-reporting of employment and
  wage information.  Therefore, we are developing a new wage reporting tool.  We conducted
  planning and analysis to develop automated employer participation notices and a
  limited issue reminder to address incoming wage and employment information that
  does not automatically post to the records.  We implemented these improvements in
  FY 2023.  Overall, we continue to have a high payment accuracy rate.


  Our greatest payment accuracy challenges occur within the SSI program.  SSI is a
  means-tested program for individuals with limited income and resources who are blind,
  disabled, or aged.  Administering the SSI program is complicated by the statutory
  requirement for us to determine SSI eligibility and calculate SSI payments monthly.  We
  generally make SSI payments on the first day of the month for eligibility in that
  month.  Many factors impact SSI payment accuracy.  Even if a payment was correct
  when paid, subsequent changes in that month can affect the payment due, resulting
  in either an overpayment or underpayment.  Thus, the program requirements sometimes
  make improper payments inevitable.  Improper payments often occur if recipients
  (or their representative payees) fail to timely report changes in any of their eligibility
  factors (e.g., an increase of their resources or a change in their wages).  Failure
  to report changes is the primary cause of both overpayments and underpayments.


  Based on our FY 2022 stewardship reviews (FY 2023 stewardship information will be
  available in summer 2024), we estimate that we paid approximately $57.6 billion
  to SSI recipients.  Of that total, we estimate about $4.6 billion were overpayments,
  representing approximately 8.02 percent of outlays.  We estimate that underpayments
  during this same period were $680.8 million, the equivalent of approximately 1.18
  percent of outlays.


  Of the estimated $4.6 billion in SSI overpayments, approximately $4.3 billion was
  due to factors outside of the agency’s control because the data or information to
  validate payment accuracy prior to making payment does not exist or is inaccessible
  to us.  The primary cause of these overpayments is reliance on timely self-reporting
  of employment and wage information.  We are addressing this root cause by conducting
  quality reviews and cost-effective program integrity work including SSI non-medical
  redeterminations.  To reduce the reliance on self-reporting, we continue to expand
  and pursue new data exchange partners from government and private sectors.


  Approximately $287 million in SSI overpayments were within the agency’s control
  and due to our failure to access data or information to validate payment accuracy
  prior to making a payment.  The primary causes of these overpayments are incorrectly
  computing the payment or failure to obtain or act on available information affecting
  the payment.  We are addressing this root cause by investing in information technology
  modernization to provide our employees with user-friendly systems and tools.  To
  meet the challenges of our growing workloads and provide the best service possible,
  we are streamlining our policies and procedures, issuing reminders to technicians,
  and automating more of our business processes.


  We implemented the Improper Payments Alignment Strategies (IPAS) to focus on our
  corrective actions to address the root causes of improper payments in both the OASDI
  and SSI programs.  As part of our IPAS, we evaluate the effectiveness of each completed
  mitigation initiative.  Additionally, we determine the most cost-effective strategies
  to remediate the underlying causes of payment errors and monitor, measure, and revise
  the strategies as needed.'
detail_pcp12_1: null
detail_pcp14: 'The most recent Office of the Inspector General (OIG) Payment Integrity
  Information Act of 2019 (PIIA) annual compliance review was for fiscal year (FY)
  2022.  In FY 2022, we had two programs reporting estimates above the statutory threshold,
  our Old-Age and Survivors, Disability Insurance and Supplemental Security Income
  (SSI) programs.  In the FY 2022 compliance audit, the Social Security OIG concluded
  the agency was compliant with PIIA, however, in the compliance report, our IG included
  the following recommendation:  “We recommend SSA conduct a study to expand AFI [Access
  to Financial Institutions] searches between the SSI initial application and subsequent
  eligibility redeterminations.”'
detail_raa8: null
detail_raa9: null
layout: agency-specific
permalink: agency/SSA/2023.html
recovery_Aging_of_Outstanding_OP_Identified_Remaining_Unrecovered: 0.0
recovery_OP_Amt_Identified_outside_of_Payment_Recapture_Audits: 10049.0
recovery_OP_Amt_Recapture_outside_of_Payment_Recapture_Audits: 4922.0
---
